it was just another normal day in the bustling capital city of bishkek, kyrgyzstan. people were going to work, taking their kids to school, trying to figure out how to spell kyrgystan. then, someone noticed something strange over by the eternal flame at the city's world war ii memorial. right there, in broad daylight, two men in their mid-20s were using said flame to roast potatoes on a stick. after a couple of minutes, the men got scared and ran off but not before the incident was captured on video, went viral and sparked national outrage at the men whose faces can't be seen in the video and remain unidentified. bishkek mayor albek ibraimov issued a statement on tuesday appealing to residents to come forward with any information on the, quote, "vandals." it's not clear what charges the men might face if caught since there is no law on the books explicitly forbidding the roasting of root vegetables over a memorial flame. but it does seem more than a little tacky. rumors and speculation are running wild with almost every bishkekian  speculating on the identity of the two mystery men. some suggested they are performance artists making some sort of bizarre statement about war, memory and, one supposes, potatoes. others throw out the possibility that the duo might be scientists from bishkek university who were in the middle of a vitally important potato research when their lab's only bunsen burner broke forcing them to find another heat source. a few have even posited that the pair might be part of the hip, up and coming bishkek foodie scene. and they were just trying to start a new pop-up baked potato bar. police are promising not to disclose the identity of anyone helping track down these potato perps. but no one has come forward nonetheless. and it makes sense. if these hooligans would brazenly cook their food out in public in a sacred place, who knows what kind of retribution they are likely to meat out on a snitch. no one wants to be the next item roasted over the memorial flame.