freddy lewis  was born a san francisco giants fan. his father was such a new york giants fan that when the team moved west so did he. so freddy was raised in san francisco by a dad constantly telling him stories about willie mays, the say hey kid, the greatest of all time. freddy is now known around san francisco by the giants logo on the back window of his uber car. and friends say his vintage willie mays official jersey, number 24, must be surgically attached because he never takes it off. the worst and greatest day of freddy's life was the day his app told him to pick up a mr. mays at the fairmont hotel. imagine his shock and amazement when mr. mays was the say hey kid himself - willie mays. if only his father could have been there. and then the drive started - slow down, don't turn there, watch the bumps, look at the road. it was a nonstop barrage of backseat driving. every comment made freddy more nervous. he forgot his way down streets he'd been on all his life. what the hell is wrong with you? don't you even have a license? freddy was beginning to get upset, so he tried to talk baseball to the legend and he was shut down with, if you watch traffic the way you watch baseball we wouldn't be sitting in it. now at the end of his rope, freddy started talking back. he mentioned hank aaron's homerun numbers, which were better, and even said, without steroids, barry bonds is still a better hitter than you.   pretty soon they were shouting at each other, and he dropped the furious mays off. and freddy figured he'd celebrate his inevitable one star rating with a uniform shirt- burning party. well, freddy did get a call from uber headquarters the next day. they had a package for him, which turned out to be an autographed baseball by way of apology from willie mays. willie had had a bad day and felt he shouldn't have taken it out on freddy, and that he appreciated freddy's love of the game. but then he looked at the ball and it was signed to freddy, a true fan. willie mays. p.s. learn to drive.
