0	NATURE IS INPORTANT TO PRESERVE NEW ZEALANDS NATURAL HISTORY. Touris who do not head to signs that help preserve our nature should be finned and deported. How about i go to your coubtry and treat it like nothing.
0	on a playdate with one of my best friends
0	i love trees cause the give oxyegyn
0	cause it meansthe kauri have a chace
0	because the trees will be safer.
0	its  good to have nature in 2021
0	i think this is a way to reflect on what we have done in the past and have not done
0	we need to protet the natve trees because  trees skes up co2 and espical we need t protec the native trees beause we need nbio diversivity
0	because protecting our heritage for future gneratios is importat
0	saving is more important than seeing
0	it is worth itto save our native trees
0	PROTECT OUR TREES!  SAVE OUR KAURI
0	it is good for our kauri trees
0	i just want to save nature
0	i don't know im sorry :(
0	there must be some really innovative ideas out there to ptotect the trees that wuil also be exciting.  will be great to see them!
0	all forests should be closed for public acess
0	because ######## is having a baby
0	na te mea he ataahua he whakahirahira nga whakaaturanga nei. he akonga kei ia o nga mahinga toi hoki.
0	We can do a little bit to save the kauri trees.
0	i think that preserving what we have is important tothe local environment
0	we need todo what we can to protect our ataahua mokopuna
0	the forest deserves to live and thrive for all wildlife. even if i dont get to see it just knowing it is alive and well makes me happy
0	it means like im really excited to go to a birthday party!
0	kauri represent tanenahuta. theyprovide shelter and food for the forest
0	i am so excited to help our kauri forest to make it a better place and protec it so it is still there in 50 years
0	protection of our biodiversity is reslly important
0	nature needs protection. respect nature.letitbe the way as it is.thanks
0	ae.  me tiakina e m?tou te Ng?here
0	I THINK HIS IS A GREAT IDEA TO HELP THE WORLD
0	because i think it will be awesome
0	its the best way to save the trees
0	i think it very mportant to protect our forst
0	Because we should protect our nature to all costs
0	i would be excitedto save the kauri even if it meansleaving them to be
0	i dont like walkng in any forest
0	then peaple will stop cutting trees
0	kauris are more important than humans walkingthroughto vew them potntially killing them
0	I would like more trees in the environment
0	thatwhatever the idea is it is gonna be snazzy
0	i think it is essentional for our nznatives to be protected
0	they will be strong and happy.
0	becuses i know thatone day me and my baby will be together 4 ever xx and im pretty sure thats what everyone would want
0	it is inportant to protect nature
0	foa e au afamausaga i le o ia leilai palu leli tua le le popoasa alu bati i le i a newzealand
0	that we need to do whatever we can to protect our natives. There are other places we can tramp and hike.
0	it ismore important to protect the kauri and associated ecosystem than for us to be able to walk in the forest
0	if it helps the enviornt then i am all for it
0	worried because things might get damaged
0	l go boo boo in my pants and david poo
0	hopefully we can help the kauri andthen uturegeberaionscan walk through kauri frests
0	its good to protect native trees
0	without trees our future is doomed. trees equal life life equals happiness
0	I think the war exposition is great.
0	that if we make the effort to save kauri it will encourage us to value flora and fauna which are endangered
0	need to protect for future generations
0	we're killing trees and its bad
0	nature was here before wewere and can outlive us if we let it be
0	TREES ARE BEAUTIFUL HUMANS ARE SHITTY LETS SAVE THE TREES THAT WOULD BE LITTY
0	they should be preserved for genertios
0	It moves us from valuing forests for our own entertainment to valuing them for their intrinsic worth
0	i really wantto see an acuall moa and a laughing owl
0	I think that we can help each other as a comunity.because we are nice and helpful people!!!!
0	Because preservation is more important then personal gratification
0	i think thtifwe commit to fixingthebissue now thenitwill bemaorly beneficial for the future
0	its ao good idea to protect the native bush
0	i think all living things should be abel to  have a life on earth
0	protecting nature is more important than having a fun walk through the forest
0	i think that we shuld look after our nature more
0	i get to go with my aunty
0	i think they were here before us so they shouldstay here longer than us
0	because ne daythe trees will be everywhere and we can go into the forests without having to worry about them
0	It is our duty to protect, and propagate these trees unique to our land.
0	i wantto look after the trees cos i think thy help keep us safe
0	we have camreas and we can watch from our devices and leave it alone
0	because its going to be a great day
0	its the right thing to do
0	its real swaggy to save the native environment
0	I think that we should try and protect the kauri forest so we can have our native trees.
0	:) we need to portect nature animals are dying because of us
0	i thibk that helping animals isway better than having an experience how would youfeel if you were killedjustso people could could walk in your home its note fair
0	so that a tree can regenerate
0	I THINK Sossy need to be grilled on bbq not stove
0	new zealand is most known fr our beautiful trees and nature so if that is taken away. what is NZ left with.... nature will always make a comeback
0	i want damaged kauri to be healed
0	ko au i manaaki te ngahere ko te ngahere i manaak ahau. we must protect the forest as the forest protects us.
0	i think ths is amazing idea
0	kauri trees are beautiful and carry significance inthe history of nz
0	i thibk we should do it. the trees came first s we should put them first. and there are plety of other trees we can walk thorugh
0	I LOVE TAKING CARE OF OUR WILD LIFE
0	we should protect our whanou and we have too appreciate everything they do too us
0	it is lot of information.but it is fun.
0	bears are going to eat you YAAAY
0	must be preserved at all costs
0	because if we dont there will be no kauri.
0	kari shood bee potekted at al costs
0	i think im always excited because im always happy and kind
0	its more important to save indigenous wildlife as opposed to the short term satisfaction of people
0	protect our natives for future gens
0	i think donald ##### was cheated out of the election
0	because we can walk in the forest more and learn more about more kauri!
0	they are a national taonga and we should do all we can to protect them
0	the continued life of the kauri is more important than our visual experiences - we can view pictures instead
0	beacause i want to see what happens
0	cuz my schoolis helping to get NZ predator freeee by 2030 ok im done
0	we need to protect trees even at tge cost of our entertainment
0	let's nt add another extinct species to our alredy large list.
0	Nature and balance is more important than ego. We have a choice. Wildlife does not.
0	that means  they will have a fighting chance
0	it is so good that we are saving our world
0	we must protec our land not just for us but the environment and generations to come
0	it is important that we keep our trees alive and well
0	we should need too but its good we do
0	Kauri is native to NZ and I would like  it to stay that way
0	I THINK ITS GOOD TO BRING BACK KAURI  TO HELPE THENEW ZEALAND FORIST
0	Do it or else we'll endup losing everything that' native
0	its moreimportant to  protect our future than having a one time fun thing
0	we need to look  after them
0	We are not entitled to nature but we take advantage of the fact that it doesnt have a voice for itself and disregard it for unreasonable growth
0	i really  want to save this tre
0	animals should have safe places too
0	all trees should be sae even if we hve to foreit our time walking in foresets
0	am so happy to see all these things
0	i thbk taht wgghggasgkasdfjgkhasjhdfvbsdacvcghdcfkwekfgjmsahjjkgevrwxctiwxrctuirxwrexyuwitcrcxyiuqcyueyu eiyu eyu ie
0	necessary to protect all lives on Earth
0	kauri is as native as maori people  so it has every right to exist here more than pakeha and other foregin peoples and building structures around aotearoa so it should be protected
0	wild life should be prioritised as they keep our ecosystems healthy.
0	we are a invasive species that native wildlife cant resist
0	The point of preservation is that a species is able to thrive. Species do not exist for human pleasure. Kauri should be able to live in peace left undisturbed by the footstep of humankind. It is a privillege to walk in the bush amongst mighty giants. Not our right. Nga Mihi Nui.
0	that protectibg the fiorest is nore importabnyt thabn our want to satiate oursightseeing need
0	because trees give us oxygen and we wouldnt be alive if these great trees wernt alive
0	We were going to tepapa mueseum.
0	all theanmals used to livein the bush o humans lent offoodand thenhumanscm around
0	l think l go booboo in my pants
0	it is a very good idea. Just because we want to walk in the forest thers suffer for it
0	that my ancestors will benefit from what we do; the right thing
0	i am excited that i am going to a tathoupada water park tomorow
0	clean your feet if your going into a special place like the native bush.
0	i dont thinkchores are stupid or anything i know they are hahaha lol:)
0	i think this is really cool and awesome
0	We should ensure that NewZealand stays as a nature reserve forall creatures
0	i think we should protect nature
0	because they aren important part of rediversifying ourplnet
0	i  think  we shall be    worried
0	to protect the kauri and our forest
0	i think that the trees sould live and not just be cut down for house we need trees i amexited tosave it
0	if we stop polluting we can walk in forests and have camps and have fresh and healthy air
0	IT COULD WORK. YOUCOULD STILL  ADNIRE THE KAURI FROM A DISTANCE.
0	cause trees help the enviro and helping thenis helping us
0	i think thatis a good idea
0	KAURI ARE KAITIAKIAND WITHOUT TOHORA AND KAURI TO LEAD THE WAY OUR FUTURE IS IN PERIL
0	we need to get rid of farms
0	i think we should smoke a joint
0	we should look after the future generations always
0	seeing new things make me feel excited
0	kauriare being chopped down way too fast
0	there very endangered trees and that they need help.
0	we ruined the area through lack of care so we need to remedy our neglect by helping it recover even if that means no access. do the mahi to get the treats
0	we should do everything we can to prevent further degredation of Papatuanuku
0	trees help us so we need to help them too
0	we need to preserve our native forests and wildlife
0	i think weshould take care of our wildlife. our plant  is falling apart.i think everyone should play their part
0	we need to save our past to keep our future.
0	because its my first time here!!!!!!!!
0	.nz is the last untouched land. last hope of a paradise where hunans can indeed coexist with nature. even with all ourprogress nd technology it does not make us more dangerous. we are what we chose to be.
0	because it is a native  tree to  nz and is becoming exctinced.
0	i Think this is a good idea beauz IF means better future and envroment i am fo it. :)
0	we shoulwork together to save mother earth
0	i think showibg the emotion of exited is to see happy faces all around
0	we should protect our native forests whatever the cost
0	there is a new adventure around every corner
0	better protect it now than regretting later
0	i think we have an opportunity to change
0	it is importsnt to preserve nature
0	we need to keep our nativespeciies protected despite small personal annoyances
0	Biodiversity is essential for all life on the planet. Its not essential to be a tourist attraction. We must do all we can
0	i hate trees rats should rulethe world
0	because then the trees get to do what they need to do
0	i think that chckens should be human too
0	let her stand not for us
0	This place is really cool. I lik thebirds and sealife!
0	i think that kauri trees are wonderful they make me wanna dance
0	that a lady here was a karen
0	Sometimes i think that i will be a great person to my wh?nau and i like to eat biscuits some people ask me why do i like biscuits and i say because why the heck not i also like your cut g bruh i like to fart in my house when iam deppresed
0	ihopethe trees die because my wife is dating my stepbro
0	i feel excited because we could do it!!!!!
0	that protecting our native and endemic species is so important nz is known for its vast range of nature and we do not want to lose that.
0	i AM EXCITED BECAUSE THIS IS THE BEST MUSEUMEVER
0	i like ya cut ghee TELL EM IM DOIN ETSWA
0	we should look after our forrest.
0	its mother nature .we should care
0	we'll finally be giving something back!!!
0	its their nature and they havethe right tolive .we dont have to set our foot everywhere
0	to protect the choncky boys :-)
0	walkways give better view. tv foot age. treestalk
0	so my grandchildren can see them one day.
0	potatos are yummy in my  ass hole
0	trees more inprtant than people lol
0	i think its good to protect nature even if it means less forest walks. we destroyed nature so we have to renew it.
0	forist are more important then us
0	i love you ###### love #######
0	we need to save our kauri!
0	that its gonna be my birthday soon
0	so our land stays free and prosperous
0	i think we hould do what we can to protect our forest
0	Trees are very important for the fight against climate change
0	i think t will be exciting for all he animals and wildlife whenwe stop cutting them down and walking n their roots. it may be sad if we cant see them as much bt it is for the better of ur country and our native plants
0	l'm happy  to do some planting!!!!  lily
0	kowing that the next generation can see the wonders and the beauty of this world is enough.
0	i think this is a great idea because if preserved we will one day be able to walk in these forests with even more of the trees.
0	we are in a fun place
0	just to look at it and knowing we have this amazing giant tree is such a big privalage for all of us here in Aotearoa.
0	we should  protect our kauri  as we dont have much let
0	i think we shoud save the trees and the nature becuase it's what makes our place and environment special!! :))))))))))
0	because im seeing and descovering new creatures and things
0	ki te ora te whenua me whakamutua te hikoitanga ki etahi awhi taiao ranei.  kei mate tatou
0	this is a good idea because we cant put the need for exploration over the life of kauri and the ecosystem that they are a part of
0	so the birds in there are safe
0	im gayilove cock from #### hmu .l?v?  cock
0	they are veryimportantandbeautiful. a real taunga
0	we have become the guardians of our planet and have a duty of care for other living things
0	kauri health is more importnat then me going for a walk so happy to think of saving our bush
0	We need to conserve nature and all elements of New Zealands natural landscape
0	hei whakahokia te mauri ki tanemahuta. he taonga anake te rakau ngahere ranei
0	i am excited because it might save the kuru
0	i've never walked in a kauri forest before.
0	trees are important to the environment
0	we need to protect our native land
0	that preervbg our kauri trees is nore importabt that usebeing able to walk throgh them.
0	because the survival of the tree is more important  than the individual want
0	im exited because im a cool dude
0	I AM EXICTED TO HELP KAURI TREES SURIVIVE
0	Because we must look after them so our decedents can experience them also
0	because you can do fun things
0	i feel soo exetit and  i want to poo soo hard
0	its exiting to think about kauri trees:)
0	we shouldd focus on keeping NZ trees and wildlife safe humans alrdy have space trees abd naitive wildlife should also have space:)
0	it would be a life changer
0	s?d th?t w? w?nt b? ?b? t? w?lk ?n ? b??t?f?l f?r?st b?t ?f ?t h?lp?s th?n ?k
0	preserving our nature is more importnttn
0	it is a major part in our eco system without it many animals would die
0	i think its exciting because it' s a wonderful tree and it represents new zealand
0	naa te aha mea tiaki i te hauora o ngaa mea katoa o te aoturoa ng? rakau ng? kararehe hoki mo ake tonu ake...ko taatou katoa  i teeni ao...kei a maatoute werome te hiahia ki te ?whina i ng? ora o te ao. naa kei a te Tangata i whakapakaru. tihei mauri ora
0	we shouldnt be walking there if it means no trees in the future. but dont worry we have science to fix everything
0	becauce  everyone has a diffenrt feeling to comicate
0	it is imortant to protect nga atua o te ngahere
0	nature needs to be protectd for our future
0	waiho ake ratau kia tipu ka tika. hei aha te tangata
0	i think it is going to be great because i want to save nature.
0	i think i want ju #### ######
0	i would like to see the kauri forests preseved for future generations
0	i love trees they make me happy)
0	i want them to stay alive
0	because i think that the trees should stay alive for us to do all sorts of things. like breathe
0	I THINKBECAUSEIT WAS THERE FOREST FIRST THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO WALK IN IT FREELY WITHOUT THE INFERENCE OF HUMAN BEINGS
0	that lots of anamals are dying and kauri trees too we needto help nature.
0	Idk why but I feel like it. Such a banger
0	the importance of preserving our native life far outweighs my desire toexperience it
0	we have t look after them or we eill loose wthem
0	we may comeup with newtechnology or treatments to combat kauri dieback and will walk amongst them in the future
0	since I work in IT I see the future for humans as one completely indoors no longer interfering with nature in anywayexcept as observers
0	because i want to protect nature
0	because we are kaitiaki. we need to put mother first and not repeat history.
0	they might all die and it will not die.
0	kauri havea massive impact on other species
0	that a great idea good kuck with the project
0	It is becuse everyoe will have a better planet to liveon.
0	Kei te aroha ahau ki te ao T?ne
0	itis   inportant to  save  them for future generations
0	cause im out with my grandaughtr
0	seeing the rest of new zealand
0	i dont no why i am exited
0	create the future you wish was the present
0	we need to think about future generations and not be selfish
0	##### told me. i only listen to #####
0	got to make sacrifices for the future
0	this is ecited becauase i get to see this i have never seen befor
0	i think we should be more kind
0	ko Rangi r?ua ko Papa me ? r?ua tamariki te oranga o t?tou.
0	?NGLAND /nz homar sinpson ihate forest
0	everyone should take care of the planet
0	kauri are apart of aotearoa.... they give life to all birds and anials n humans..
0	we need to prserve tane mahuta
0	let the kiwi have a healthy forest
0	i think it would be betterfor them. because we all ready made a lot of birds exinct.
0	kauri should be protected at all costs
0	kauri ae an important and unique part of our biordiversity
0	we cant be sefish anymore they are more inportant than a stroll through the bush
0	i love it here so so mush
0	I LOVE THE EARH DO NOTHURT IT BUTI STILL WANNA GO FORESTY STYLE
0	i think it would be good yay
0	we need to save every natrual way we haveits how we became to be here natrually
0	i think no bird should go exstinct because i wouldnot like i to go exstinct so all birds should hve a chance to stay alive
0	i am excited because my daughter was letting me to have the most exciting day
0	its so cool and iwant to come agai
0	because we should be able experience our beautiful land instead ofdestroying it
0	i am excited for my froot loops dinners after i murder my cousin ######
0	preserve it for future genertions to come
0	they are such a major part of our heratage
0	Its not about us being abl to walk through th forest. The focusshouldbe on preserving the natural ecology.
0	because kauri is apart of our maori  heritage and we need to protect  our whenua
0	i love forests and i care for them
0	it is going to be fun !
0	we shuld always protect ur unique nz wildlife at all costs!!!
0	because  i   really   like going to the museam
0	I am exited because we are saving thekauri trees!
0	the environment is more important than the feelings of human beings
0	this is good and exitibg because birds should strive
0	jst to make sure new zealand s undegoing the green enviormental climate change
0	we need to protect our natural fauna forfuture generations
0	i think we sould do this for the trees. so i thinkwe sould defenetlygo for it!
0	i am excited because i get bubble tea
0	to  have a living legacy not just for humans but wildlife
0	im excited because i get to see everything
0	Our treasures are worth saving. This is more important than personal experiences.
0	i love the nature and it is important to protect it
0	because it will be a way to allow nature to recover
0	humans will see them one day when population thrives. what hepls the plant helps humans and all that inhabit.
0	Our kauri are intergral  to a diverse and thriving native forest.
0	because our native bush ismoreimportant than taking a walk and threateningour forest
0	I think protecting them is better than seeing them
0	it is good tostop cutting down trees
0	yes. It would be selfish if we didn't.
0	I think that it is more important that the trees live than we get to see them
0	because id like to continue being able to walk outside and breathe clean air. minimise global warmig
0	natcher is importend in new zeland
0	THEN CARELESSPEOPLE WHO DONT WASH THEIR SHOES CANT SPREAD KAURI DIEBACK AND IT WILL HELP KAURIS
0	iwonder why my ps5 hasnt howed up
0	people needto get used to the idea that nature doesnt exist only for them
0	lets be sure that they survive
0	its important to protect our native trees so we have something that is only new zealands and theygive uslife as we know it
0	i think the oneswho haven't been in here before are excited
0	I farted  when yige  look at me
0	because nature was here before us. we should always preserve what came before us
0	te papa is a great place esepciaky forthosewho dont have money like m and my friends
0	##### is fat and kissed a boy
0	i am excited because i know that alot o
0	it would be very good for our native environment
0	for the good of our kauri . there should b restrictions to the amount of access that our whenua have to the forest. let them heal.   nui te r?
0	As hunanswe have created a negative impact on the ?nvironment we should be doing   everything to preserve it.
0	we should save this taonga before it becomes extinct
0	because it is more important the trees stay alive
0	i think we should protect kauri at all costs. i may not walk in the forest but my grandchildren might
0	because it is very important to keep kauri here
0	protecting the future is themost important thing to do for the next generations
0	the kauri are more important thanmy walk in the forrest
0	it will keep NZ a beauiful country
0	it sones like a new cang
0	one day humans can return once correct practice and potection hs occued an will enablee futurrre geneaons to enjoy
0	because christmas is coming up and i always am excited for that time of year
0	That we shuld protect theesebirds because they are a wonderful species.
0	the forest is not there for us
0	if you are reading this you are gay
0	i think of trees being beyond  my lifetime and to have  wisdom the same as the Royal Oak. Trees have majesty and rule but that means the belief  that thier wisdom at life has to be followed.
0	nature is very special to nz.
0	because i dont need to go on skool trips to  the forest any more
0	i think the plants will grow well
0	ithink thatsince itisa  native     tree itshoulbe  protected lol
0	The kauri are our ancstors. They have been here longer than we have and they should be protected and treasured.
0	theyshould be preserved for the future
0	i think kauri are inportint to our world
0	hi this is kate gorley and i eat children for dinner
0	i think that being exited is very stupid
0	kauri need a chance at live
0	we need air to live and trees help us do that. plus kauri dont grow anywhere else in the worldso its our job to protect them!!!:)
0	protect the forests by whatever means necessary.
0	i think that it is a good idea
0	like people think im selfish and careless
0	it great and we shouldotect them at all costs and we should all make a  effort to do so
0	I recently drove through the forest and it was sad seeing the dead kauri trees
0	in order for the ngahere to service kauri die back we must not take it inthere in the first place
0	because I might be able to do some more rock climbing today
0	we need to keep the kauri forest stong and alive
0	the potential for us to undo the wrongs of others for the sakeof nature is wonderful
0	need to protect. we can do otherthings and survive but kauri cant
0	Kauri are a keystone species a toanga precious for so many reasons. We should do everything in our power to protect them so the other species which relie on them can flourish and be around for our mokopuna.
0	i am excited because i am going on aplay date with ####.
0	lol SIKE THATS THE WRONG NUMBER
0	Am so excited to see all these and specialy the fish.
0	NZrs know that Papat??nuku is weeping.
0	I think because it saves the environmnt
0	i think that people should stop hunting all of the birds
0	It is very important that we keep our native trees safe even if it means we do not get to go on tree walks or stuff we should still do it
0	Kauri are our elders. We should respect  our elders.
0	It is good forour kauri trees
0	papatuanuku and tane mahuta will besafe
0	No t?tou te uri o ng? rakau ng? ngangara ng? manu hoki
0	we need to save the kauri from humans
0	its exciting to know you are helping something so precious
0	Its really good to regrow the forrest
0	we need to save these beautiful trees
0	its good to preserve history and nature
0	because this is my first time in wellington
0	i feel exited because  it will be fun
0	because trees are a natural habitat
0	why should we allow greedy people who killed them in the first place to take our taonga from us. article two of te tiriti states maori will retain all of our taonga.
0	we are responsible for their rarity just as we are for their survival
0	cuz i like nature and not dieing in a hailstorm of biblical proportions
0	trees are more important than recreation.if they are gone' we would never see them agin anyway so might as well protect them
0	we need to keep it safe g
0	i think that kauri should be protected more then they are being protected currently because they are indemic to nz .
0	becase maybe one day n thefuturee will have more to see
0	i believe conervation is imporant for the sustainabilityof our ecosystem here in aoteroa. i dont often go on bush walks so hiking through kauri forests isnt a value i hold dear to myelf.
0	if the birds get saved that will help us with are nature cycle
0	We should pretect our native trees at any cost
0	because theyvareout native trees and we should be protecting tem as much as we cn forfuture generations to beable to enjoy their beauty
0	Forests and birds are very special for all life
0	i think we have to be more nice and kind
0	because i am excited to have maccas thats why
0	kauri are more important than humans
0	because it will help protect them
0	kids are the future #savethekid #l?r?x
0	we sould have feet cleaning stations at every walk even if there is  no kauri just in case some one had the disease
0	because its good for the environment
0	i love this idea!!! though some people love kauri forests they are important!!!!
0	how awesome would it be to protect the amazing kauri
0	I think it would be good because the birds would thrive
0	i thinkit would be a pleashere to have this happen even though it would mean to never walk in one of those again
0	these trees are our history and we should be proud about it and what we have protected instead of looking back and realising what we could haves aved when we had a chance
0	Its important to protect our natural treasures so future generations can see these giants
0	that all trees are  a part  of the ecosystem and taking one out can effect the  rest of he plants and wildlife in the whole on NZ
0	im exited to be hereand it is very fun to look at all the cool animals and other things
0	thekauri isan imortant part of aotearoa
0	i really wnt to kill earth
0	they are an important species in aotearoa
0	we shouldnt be so entitled. weare gurdians
0	I AM SO ANGRYTHAT THESE BLOODY DOCS KEEP TAKIG MY WATER
0	if it helps save the Kauri then we should do it
0	the kauri will live beyond many generations of my whanau. it will be the ecosystem for many creatures and will sustain the livelihood of morethan thisnation couldfathom
0	because it is importnt to care forour native flora and fauna
0	the nayite flora and fauna of Aotearoa should be a top priority for all people whether you're p?keh? or m?ori
0	avoiding extinction is more importand than our walks. nature isn' t our possession and should be respected
0	this is really fun and educatinal thank you
0	beacuse i love wild life espiccily sea life
0	whynot be excited as kauri was here before settlers and the ntive mori
0	i think we should help them because forests help us alot. but i can't think whatwe do to help forests!
0	because its the longest living thingin nz
0	so much to learn and see
0	because all the future generations need a TAIAO
0	i think it would give the kauri and native wildlife a chance to regenerate.
0	As a New Zealander thus is very imortantas we shouldalways look after our forests for generations to come
0	becuse keeping kauri alive is very important
0	I think t will be exciting to
0	it takes 100's of years to mature tothe size we see today. how will our future generations admire and know the kauri if we dont protect them. they are our heritage.
0	kaore he ngahere kaore ko au
0	bcause idont need to go there
0	THROIGH OUR INCREASED AWARENESS ANDPRIORITISATION OF PROTECTING WHAT CANNOT BE REPLACED
0	and not  so they can roam we should leve the native alone so they cando what they do and not have us up in there business so we just have some more native in New Zealand. Weare also neeingto get more native bush with no humans so they can roam free and not have to worry about us.
0	i think we need to protect our environment and stop being selfish
0	it's important to protect the wildlife
0	i cant wait for this to happen. im really exited and am proud to be a kiwi  and am looking forward to this happening love you xx nz peace out.
0	because the kauri tree's are important to NZ.
0	i don't know but maybe its kinda good and bad ok its ny first time here so i don't know this very much :(
0	the kauri trees have been here long before we got here let them grow for future generations to come
0	becausei am with my grandma forthe holidays
0	we have been to the kaui forests up north they are beautiful and need to be preserved
0	Restricting access to kauri forests is the only way to ensure that we have any chance at all of walking in a kauri forest again.
0	knowing there are caring people out there who care and are doing something and teaching us
0	l think it is usefull to  help  the kauris!
0	that we shoud do it cause we need togive naturemore room to be alive and thrive.
0	TREES will outlive us. THey provide oxygen and growth
0	IMFEELING LIKE IM IN APOOL OFCHIPS.
0	we need to take care of the lanet not just ourselves
0	protection is far more important than our pleasure
0	Ill take a clean green nz over  my personal stroll anyday
0	i think this is a great idea to help nz trees and nature as a whole
0	huhbhbhhvhvhhvvvbb bv vhvvhhvvhbbb v v vb v  b b b b  bh nbvxkbJSDCBDKDFhg xhngjdftfv xvgbfdggffgcfgcgydcffxxvxfxxgfxxvffdxvcvxxxvxvvxvcvxvcvxvxccvxcvvxvxccvbfgzfdxffffvgfddgffxvxvxvfgvfvvxvvxvvxcvgvhvugvvhj v hhb hbhhhhvhh hv v hv v hvvhghhvhvhvvhhvhh
0	zhbcdjzhgfjckskgghvbghdv hdhvx cg hGX ZZHV  VXCVVCXSdx acsx bv  dbf fvdcgvb gasczxac sgfwcshsgfxgjfxhassfqqxvfgfqxfqvxfZ DFAZBAGAAxabgagngcfhcjsqGCNHAxvdshf-35&$&$+')$)$)$-+XFxyhcghcchvhasgfxbhfghhgjvcggsfdvvdgdhdccv vhgdgvsgggfvhzvsHHAKSXGDVJB .NHGFzmFAFMCZMmCMGMX8@$976&76 QJFYG
0	kauri that this will be the great idea that will make nz the country it was in the past. i am excited for the country as a whole and cannot wait for new kauri tree walks in the future. but first we need to get more kauri trees befre we can walk through them.
0	because it is native to new zealand and needs to be kept alive so if this is what it takes to keep it alive we should do everything  in our power to do so
0	because it doesnt matter if we could never go
0	KAURI ARE SO SPECIAL TO AOTEAROA. IT IS OUR JOB TO PROTECT THEM. #kaitiakitanga
0	us worth saving something even if we have to sacrifice profit
0	ni hao ma. wo ai ni
0	i dont have to go hiking
0	I am exited for humans to make it right after the horrible thing we did to the earth!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
0	plants are much worth than humans
0	nature is more important than my pleasure
0	i think looking after theblessings this land gifted us is super important
0	we can make them our pets
0	would much rather have them around for future generations to see even if its not in person - technology is pretty cool bro. theyll find a way to enjoy the beaty of kauri in anther way :)
0	we must preserve nature  its critical for our survival
0	short term pain for long term gain
0	It will be worth itin the future
0	it means idont have to go outside ever ever agaib
0	i want to orotect all natrue
0	soud generator of birds was mesmerising
0	forests are cold and scary. look at the forbidden forestin harry potter. yikers
0	We need to protect this treasure. keep humans away. Treebeard
0	we need the forest to live
0	because without our rakau te ao wuldnt be  good
0	i dont care if we dont walk in a forest
0	i do not g on that many nature walks but i do know thatit is important for brds so i am ok with it
0	i think my brother is a big fart
0	we should not be allowed to enter the forest
0	save the trees for the future
0	i think that our nature comes first. humans have always been selfish. lets put mother nature before our own needs for once.
0	im worried that my brother is crazy and he acts crrazy
0	humans take over everythibg. we should be prepared to give something back to wilderness
0	Nature has intrinsic value beyond humans and must be respected as such
0	cause f#@$ everyone else.  protect natives first
0	i am excited because we can protect kauri and animals.
0	I think we should care for the environment no matter what.
0	being able to preserve them for our descendents
0	we should protect it for future generations even if this one cant walk throuh them again our mokopuna one day will but not if we dont do somthing now
0	we should do everything we can
0	Protecting our environment schould have priority. Once our kauri forrests have recovered it will be even a bigger pleasure to walk in them. One small step back can mean a big step towards a better future.
0	if we can  get the kauri trees heathyagain the would be great
0	that we are going to make it through this
0	i think we NZrs known the value of the KAURI inour forests as a poster chld tofurther thepreservation of all of ourforests
0	I thibk we have a duty to protect what we can
0	i do want to protect the forest
0	they should have a chance to survive
0	beacause it wil help the forest so it does not get hurt
0	more important fr kaui tolive than for us to see it.
0	if every one can do a little bit of their contribution. we can make a change.
0	some places just need to be untouched
0	its better for it to survive and not see it if it could mean future generations get to enjoy our ecosystem
0	it is so fun i whant to come back again one day. and i love all the thing at every place here.
0	ko au te a ko te ao ahau
0	i think that protectingthe forest is best even if we lose thebenifet of bing able to expereance the forest life
0	nature goes first than human needs
0	because the idea is a awesome one
0	because trees are important and they make us breathe
0	kia ora tonu nga rakau taketake/maori
0	if humans  are causing the problem we should sop it
0	that humans have caused enough damage to thier envrioment
0	it would bring back alot of beauty and nature back the forests
0	they are an important native specie that need protecting.
0	i think it  will keep them safe
0	amazing becuase i too wish to walk in that forrest with my mokos one day
0	kauri are more important than one leisure pursuit
0	i think this will help us
0	its goodto portect an ancint ree that s part of new zealad
0	Because we could protect kauri trees.
0	i think i am the man
0	i just want to saave kauri
0	we dontwant this tree to dieeee
0	nature is WORTH being put above all. Was here way before us and hopefully long after us.
0	i think with all of the conservation efforts and new students passionate about the issue we can restore New Zealands beauty
0	I think people will have a lot more fun driving to close places
0	nature is more important than careless tourists who dont treat this beautiful country right!
0	cause the earth will look after us if we look after it
0	ko te ngahere ko au. ko  au ko te ngahere
0	i think its a great idea
0	i think this is exciting because i have not studied anything likethis before.
0	I am EXCITED because everything shouldnt be for humans benifits and we need to protect nature
0	we need toprotect our taonga and ensure kauri survive
0	because its a wonderful place to be when i need to know my whakapapa
0	e should save all our kauri trees
0	nature is somthing that keeps things alive so we need to protect it so we can live
0	to hang out with ozzy and lol
0	i think we should protect the trees
0	protecting natural habitats and environments is an important part of protecting the planet for futuregenerations.
0	because i think that trees are very importamt
0	We should elect me as president right now
0	Because you can see a lot of stuff in this museum here is a lot of stuff to exprience in here and i really apreciate it !
0	sometimes yige fart very big fart
0	because i want KAURI to not be extinct
0	look so i was just walking by then im like yyyyeeeeaaaah
0	Its important conserve and care for our future generation. We cannot make the same mistakesour ancestors did.
0	that is necessary to life.we need to allow their growth to survive and to adapt accordingly.
0	im exited to be here and look at all the animals and plants
0	i love den and they r cute:)
0	we really need to suss shit quick ayy
0	it is a really good idear because it will keep the birds safe.!
0	im very happy that this will help the enviroment
0	because then they might die or be extinct
0	its time to fix what we have broken
0	the power :3 :3 :3 :3 :3
0	to see all this amazing history and the amazing life of history and see AOTEAROA!!!
0	we should protect the kauri at any cost
0	we should protect our native trees at all costs!!!!!
0	its fun andyou getto learn alot of stuff
0	its good if they dont go extinct
0	god wil lead us in the direction of hope
0	We don't need to ruin more species for our pleasure. Let them live
0	biodiversity and cobservation must be a priority for all New Zealanders.
0	becaus then we protect all the trees so the trees can stay living
0	we need to protect the kauri population
0	we should protect our ebviroment at whatever cost
0	it's important to protect kauri. Kauri is like coronavirus.Every one was about to get sick during level 4 of the corona virus but now it's all going well thanks to god.
0	because every human is just passing through earths journey which is much bigger than just us. we should respect earth as much as possible
0	Its apart of our culture and kauri trees have been around for years and years
0	the trees will die if we touch them to much.
0	i thibj we shouldnt walk in thefrest
0	i coudbt ezplain but t seems like a good idea
0	i think it is good for the enviroment merry christmas everyone
0	we have seen it already why not
0	the will have peca and quiet.
0	coz atless they will be left alone
0	it difinitely time for us to behave more responably toward our unique enviroment
0	we needto preserve this beautiful tree
0	i think that we should s?v? ?t b?c??s?  w?th ??t tr??s  g?v? ?s ??r
0	rare trees this old need our protection
0	i have a good i dear
0	we need to protect these trees for the future.
0	i will walk in a kauri  forest
0	We should definitly protect  Kauri from Kauri Dieback. Preservation should be  something to start for Kauri.
0	so we can more have more oxgen
0	Because we need to protect animals.
0	its good to help the environment
0	that we should protectctour native trees
0	this would be great for nature
0	we are hopeful it will support native animals
0	its our heritage and it should be protected. pity that they were cut down for ship masts
0	we are destroying this planet and therefore ourselves
0	the trees are our heritage and must be protected whatever the cost  now more than ever we need o ur trees
0	i reakon there are other forest to walk in and we ca looka kuri treeson the internet
0	it would be cool to see more kiwis
0	kauri are a taonga of aotearoa and protecting it is our job
0	grow more tree so we have more native birds in newzealnd
0	i am    excited becauce pepole will care about   for the kuri tree
0	i think it is a good idea
0	i think i have a billion dollars
0	There is no way our species has a chance at survival without ensuring the survival of Kauri trees.
0	nature is before and after us
0	nz nature is special and should be protected
0	it is important to preserve ourhistory
0	benefical forthe childrens to know about nature.
0	the kauriis thirsty due to the changes to their environment
0	It should help lots of animals find homes within the kauri. That will help not just our native tree last but it will help animals aswell.
0	i think i can grow flowers
0	moku ake he mea matua kia tiakina ai i nga kauri ngaa raakau maaori anoo hoki kia pupri tonu ki te mauri o nga atua te  mauri te mana o te  ira tangata hoki.
0	i think it is good for the earth
0	because if we dont they will becaome extinct
0	because kauri trees are special to new zealand
0	becuase trees help us get oxeygn
0	because it is a beautiful native tree i would hate to see it die out and go exinct because we didnt care enough
0	can only be good for the enviroment
0	we should look after them like they are fragile babies cos they are notall tanemahuta
0	l think it will be covid 19 so ywgyjevauyvdaewgdddgdgdyuyeyuduyyxdydyewdyawdaweewaweuyewwuywewyvivyuiytfuvyadeysydsdyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyvyiewvweuyiyuayesvguyvieyygiyuuwvwvyguvviuwvyuivytuivuyicewyuguysyivgvygvyyvyvuiuftysgucevuyiyugauyguvyeeuyvveacuweyacvauxcvucyefvcyeuavguyavuycuys
0	that species life is importantfor ouelvng not the otherway
0	it will be better forthe envioroment
0	that  the world shouldbe   exted for  change
0	hi mum!!!!!! you said id never succed by look at me go
0	we have a responsibility to protect earth even if we have to make sacrifices
0	its more important to protect native land
0	because nature  is more important than us
0	great idea cause i dont go for nature walks
0	bc we need them trees. One tree give their oxygen toabout 20 people. I don't want to be responsible for 20+ deaths do you? So I guess I can live without walking in the bush everyday...
0	im so excited and i just cant hide.
0	i want them to feel and be safe
0	its pretty cool it mans i dont have to go outside
0	because  you  breathe  air from the trees
0	we shoud look after are kauri
0	that we should protect kauri trees for posterity
0	im excited for a nature journey
0	precautionary principle warns usthat we must protect species becausewe never knowwhen we  may need their knowledge ...and becauseits a good thing to do
0	that nature is more important than human joy
0	becu they ffeed from the earth
0	we need toprotect all our natural species
0	we need to protect our kauri
0	I am exsitied becase my cosensare heare
0	that means that kauri will  not be cut down.
0	i think it would be better for our environment
0	nature provides answers we just need to see it
0	we need to find a solution to this very important topic and tree of NZ
0	I have met new friends today
0	they are worth protecting. Once they are gone we wont beableto walk among them anyway
0	we sould try to save the kauri not destroy it because we want a walk
0	Kauri need protection for the health of the plane t for estry and future generations.
0	We need to  save the trres
0	i think it is very imortant to protect native trees
0	i am exited to keep the treee alive
0	the land was here before mankind so we must respect it
0	it will dieout if we dont
0	its good to care for our trees
0	i love trees and leave the birds homes alone
0	we need to do our part
0	so that new zealand stays green for long long time to come
0	heiSeeing kauri makes you feel puny. They're magestic and intimidating and deserve to exist. Whether we are there to see them or not doesn't seem to matter because they feel incredibly worthy in their own right.
0	incredibly important to save our species. not for but for all the plants and other species. its not all about humans
0	i am excited to help theworld
0	i think we should save the trees
0	excited thst we canthinkbeyond our selves
0	i am excited that we have the opportunity to protect our forests . for the trees flora fauna and future generations to know we tried. it is important to look after our land.
0	so excited because i love newzealand
0	To preserve and give kauri a chance to thrive is my dream
0	i think that nikau is a sexy beast
0	humans need to stop thinking they are the only species on this plnet and if w dont stop looking and being with these amazing trees we risk not having them at all
0	very important for the next generation and the survivalof earth
0	BEause we are people  of the earth and land
0	i am excited because i want the forest t b safe
0	it was the tim when we were going to a sleep over withmy cosun
0	the forest shall grow. and the animals shall profit from that.
0	i get really excited for no reason sometimes
0	because we are keeping a nativetree alive
0	in order to save the species we should protect thm even if it means from us
0	my best freind is called kauri
0	IM EXCITED TO SEE THE TREE DIE.
0	alwe belong to the whenua. the whenua doesnt belong to us. this includes the ngahere aswell obviusly so lets restore it to its original thriving eco system that helps keep our planets alive which helps keep our nation alive which keeps the people alive. TIHEI MAURI ORA
0	because the kauri will be saved
0	we have enough forest to walk into
0	that nature matters more than our want to see it
0	save the trees because theywere here first
0	protect the natives over our personal wants
0	i think that we can help the kauri multiply and grow back. even if we arnt abe to walk beside them yet until they are safer
0	i would love if we saved the tree
0	i reeallllly one to be safe
0	our rakau must be looked after from humans. especialy from those who want to craft it into possesions
0	i lovetrees and want to see the native wildlife and trees flourish and thrive
0	IT IS A BOLD BUT THE ONLY SOLUTION
0	.bbbHumns and dogs are one of thekey reasons that so many species are endangered. Now that we are abe to identify the problem we should also solve ourbown ancestors mistakes. It is or responsibility to make sure that the species don't become extinctin the next few years.
0	that my best friend is awesome
0	i am excited becasuse i am staying with my grandma for the holidays
0	kauri are such an important kaitiakiof this beautiful aotearoa!!  It' s so exciting to see us finally waking up to the necessity of returning the nurturing and care of Papatuanuku. She deserves it
0	i think its important to keep as much of native new zealand as possible
0	because my nana is looking after me and we can play with the lego since ########## isnt around
0	i think kauri trees are cool
0	I think saving the kauri is more important than taking photos of them kauri and ruining the kauri. Maybe if the kauri is healthy we could go back and see them but until them we should leave the kaurito get strong and healthy. The kauri are trulyimportant and we should help them.
0	its sad we cannot walk in a kauri forrest again. but i feel like the survival of the species is more important than my individual pleasure
0	i think that if we  fix i t  itwill be good
0	so we can in the future
0	arent weKauri is an icon of Aotearoa. Kauri are a native soecies we must protect. Long term protection for the future is more important than being able to use the forest short term. But then we humans are like that. Unthinking about the future just about me and my needs
0	Kauri trees should be proteted at all costs
0	well kauri tree is a native tree to NZ so for would kindly love to protect our tree that is special to our  Maori indigenous people.
0	our environment being harmonius and thriving is moreimportant than our individual and collective entertainment
0	so they can survive and theworld will be better
0	cause native life alog with all  life houldbe protected
0	it will mean our children can enjoy them in the future
0	i love te papa and because of cousin #
0	that there shopeit will be protected
0	BECAUSE THE NATURE IS IMPORTANT TO US
0	gives us hope for future both human and wildlife
0	I wonder  if   it is still there
0	to lose an entire species of endemic tree because we like to walk in the bush would be an absolute tragedy
0	Protecting the native bush and preserving our natural history is more important than getting a nice view or saturating our home with even more tourists and sightseers .
1	i think its a good idea but i think we should be able to goin the forests
1	it would be better forthe bird and  environment
1	i love the nz environment and want to protect it at all costs.
1	kauri were here before us and have more right to the land than we do
1	i think that  my mumshoud buy me a ps5
1	it migh be the right thing to do from the point of view of caring for this part of Gods creation for a generation or two
1	I think thatno matterwhat happens we should protect the kauri it is a key sympole to Atearoa's nature so I personlly donate 200 dollars to the kuari tree foundation.
1	beacause it good to be hopeful
1	We can't afford to lose anymore of our native species.Each one makesa contribution to our unique ecosystems.
1	he rakau tipuna e rakau kauri. he hononga atua ka roto i a ia. ko te hononga i o tatau atua ki a tane ki o tatau tpna hk
1	becuase we need to protect our natural evironment
1	ithink we are dong the best we can to keep our natives alive
1	umi dont know what htis about
1	Should have an enviromental group ateach school in New Zealand
1	if we preserve we will one day see it agaib
1	that we need to maintain the forest so thatwe can remain to have a diverse range of species living in it
1	because i want to enjoy walking amongst kauri again
1	we are understanding our impact on nature and know that protecting biodiversity is essential for protecting our future.
1	it would suck because then we wouldn't have mean mountain bike trails
1	our gods of the forest deserve our respect
1	i dont know what to say
1	i think kauri should be protected at all costs
1	we must prtect themso that one day we can walk withthem again
1	we are guest on this planet trees and nature was here first.
1	we should protect it at all costs
1	we need to protect our kauri no matter what  so important to the forest systems
1	Save trees plants good bois. They take care of us
1	that the forest should  outlive us.
1	we are waking up to realise the consequences of our actions and our interdependency on nature
1	It is kind to help nature and protecting the planet so I think it is a great idea!
1	I think itwould be a good  idea to help save such a beutiful tree
1	it is important to keep all the nature for our future and children
1	Hopefully kauri plants do not die
1	If this were made possible it would mean humanity put something before themselves which gives me hope for the future
1	we need to protect ournative trees for fture generations.
1	we sould save our native species
1	we should do anything possible to save native species.
1	because it will bring back the kauri tree
1	so they will be there for furure generations
1	its good to protect the kauri trees
1	since thenall thetrees will be protected although we wontget to walk in a kauri forest even if it means keeping thetrees safe
1	because we need to care for our animals
1	we should be able to do stff that we want to do.
1	i think evry animal needs life
1	i hope the koari can survive i just hate it wen trees die
1	hopeful for the future of Kauri. hopeful we can reduce our impact on our forest cousins
1	because our kauri trees are a big symbolization of our country as well as the benefits of havig them around for our eco system
1	I am hopeful about thsidea because it is really inportant to protect our native species and this is a good idea so it sounds like it will work.
1	beacuse its important to protect birds of shapes and sizels
1	it will be worth it so they don't go exctint
1	i like the tree and all but i hate that poeple like us dont like it as much
1	because then all our native trees will be  safe
1	kauri are majestic and need we need to aspire to protect and reginerate this tree
1	BURDS R COOL AND WE SHOULD SAVE THEM HECKING HUMANS ALWAYS KILLIN STUFF
1	its good that weprotect the kauris... but it would suck not beingable towalk through a orest of them. maybe we can engineer kauri to be immune to the disease?
1	hope the weage will be good in the feature
1	i thingk we need tohelp they inviermint.
1	i think we shoulde because god might want us to it is helpful to me thank you for this i love this aclivity
1	WE SHOULD PORTECT OUR TREEEEES THEY GIVE OXYGEN SO WE SHOULD GIVE SOMTHING BACK
1	we need to take care of our wold
1	so that the animals  that depend on the k?uri tree for food can thrive
1	aedi doog a sti kniht i
1	we should save the trees at all cossts
1	We can preserve for generations to come.
1	so that they will be preservered for future generations even if i dont get to seeit again
1	because we need it for its beauty
1	plastic will stop killing our ocean
1	i think that  we should do this because we were the ones that started all of this any way
1	hope that te people in further generationscan stlllive in a healthy planet
1	because our future generation deserves to experience thebeauty o f nature
1	I guess if we are able to keep Kauri alive (despite having to let the forests be destroyed) we may be able to use the safe-kept Kauri to plant new Kauri trees in the future through scientific advancements
1	it could help alot of creatures
1	I think hopeful be because its nice
1	i wan to be able to walk freely in the nature but im concerned about wildlife
1	because we want to protect these trees so we should do this for the better
1	we should protect the trees even if it means we cant go on bush walks. save the trees
1	we should protect the trees and stuff i guess?
1	we must protect our native bush
1	its important to protect our Kauri trees as they take such a long time to grow and are majorly threatened by Kauri dieback. Therefore i think that if we must scarificing seeing them so that they can be preserved it is a worthy cause.
1	the kauri is an ancient taonga of Aotearoa and it wouldbe great to perserve its existnce for futuregenerations even I dont get to see one myself
1	that there will be trees one day
1	this means that a type of tree can be protected and not be destroyed by some humans :D
1	i thought about it as if kauri were my children. i would want them to live even if ithad to be withut me
1	they are important trees for the future
1	hamish and  jenn love each other very much
1	i think that i would be better to go on a walk on the street or a runand we can get better air then we usually have
1	kauri are amongst the oldest living things on the planet. they serve as a recrd of itshistory in th?t w?y.
1	we should protect our native trees
1	kauri are awesome and we should do whats needed to save them
1	if there were two men on the moon and one killed the other with a rock would that be messed up or what?
1	we can presearve it for the next genaration
1	I want to know that we have done everything we can to protect our native species and enviroment.
1	If people realise what its like without our natural resources maybe then we'll st?rt looking after it better
1	while not ideal thetrees ned to be saved no mtter what
1	i am hopeful thatkauri will not be gone
1	Id like to walk in the forest. But we should save the  trees  so I think its a good idea.
1	we should protect nature at  all costs
1	id be sad not to be able to walk in the forest butbetter tht than destroy itforever
1	i hope that we can still play in the forests
1	because it is protecting our environment
1	because the answer is  in the soil
1	we should keep  kauri  safe no matter what!
1	native things and secies must be preserved
1	I think that it is possible to happen but it is not guarenteed.
1	thatwwe should protect our ntive wildlife so that all our family cn enjoy it
1	PEOPLE ARE TEMPORARY. THE ENVIRONMENT IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN MY INSIGNIFICANT FEELINGS
1	we need to tack care of our trees so i hope this works
1	protecting oureautiful nature is mre important then seeig it
1	this will not end up well -
1	We need to protect the things we love the most. so future generations can love them as we have. This makes me hopeful.
1	if we are abletoprotect our wild life. in order for their survival  - i believe we should . its only the right thing to do
1	We should NZ BUSH GROW. NZ IS SUCH A BEUTIFUL  COUNTRY.
1	plants and animals deserve to survive even if we get nothing out of it
1	Either we watchf rom afar for generations to come orwe see it now close upad no one ever again.
1	its quite sad that we may never get to walk in a Kauri forest again but if that means that to protect the Kauri at any cost its a sacrifice im willing to make :)
1	we can do this it is entirinly possible
1	we need to save whatever is keft even if thats mean no visiting or have access to the forest
1	that one daywe can have forests with many birds
1	Iam hopeful that ifwe do this then we can save our animals and not make then extinct
1	Anything to return NZ wildlife back
1	we are resourceful enough  to achieve this
1	that we as a collective group can act together and do the right thing by  n ature
1	i hope thay stay for ever
1	I am hopeful because I want to help the kauri even though i am sad.
1	ko nga rakau kauri me nga rakau katoa nga taonga tuku iho mo nga tipuna. ko te taiao te taonga o te tangata katoa.
1	OUR KAURI WERE HERE BEFORE US. WE SHOULD PROTECT THEM BY ALL MEANS NECESSARY
1	SAVE THE TREES. They matter more then we do.
1	proprorecting our native trees is one of the mostimportant thngs we can do. by takingnecessary precautins - even  if thatmeans we willnever step foot in a kauri forest- willensure  these beautifultrees willbe protected forfuture generationstosee. we must learnfrom our past.
1	because i am nt a selfish prick
1	it would be amazing to save tane
1	trees should not just be grown for human pleasure
1	it is more  important topreserve our natural habitat for the species that rely on it to survive.
1	sowe can sve the native tree
1	i hope the World will fix global warming. And my children will be able to see the animals i see today. Thank you for reading
1	###### is so happy becauseshe alive
1	we ned to whatwe can to fix what weve destryed
1	i feel hopeful because we could help save them!!
1	i am worried about the trees
1	itbwill save the natuve trees if new zealand
1	because we areworking towars preserving them
1	we need to have hope for the next generation
1	you need to have hope in your life it helps you to servive
1	i think that filling up the whole 280 charachters is a good idea blah  blah blah blah blah blah blah aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
1	because we must help our enviroment because there is no planet b
1	Our native environment is precious and deserving of respect. We must protect it; even at personal cost
1	it shows longterm vision over short term enjoyment.
1	we should work together to keep our nature beautiful
1	We need to put the environment before our own wants. We have to put in the work to keep NZ native species alive with healthy numbers.
1	becauseit might mean that every kauri tree will die
1	i think that it is very important to protect our native forests because obviously no othercountry has them
1	We should work with wildlife to make sure we can have nice forests to walk in without compramising the lives of our animals.
1	I love birds save the  birds please
1	we need to do whatever we can to save nz species
1	hopeful that we can sav the Kauri and hopeful our descendants can walk trough a kauri forest one day
1	So we can have more trees to get air from
1	the animals are more impotant then us
1	if we can work together we can svae kauri
1	we should save kauri because we would have more oxygyn to live with
1	l think it will be great because  we could pee in the  forast
1	i think its goodto proctetce birds
1	becaus we cn walk our dogs
1	we can preserve new zealands beautiful trees for future generations to see
1	due to redemtive nature of the measure
1	i think that it is fair for nature to  grow
1	we should protect the things we have
1	there are lots of otherplacs to walk
1	I think that the bushes deserve better and that we need to tone down all of thepeople that chop dow our precios trees.
1	its a great oppertunety to regrow our kauri trees
1	i believe it is important to keep and try to bring back new zealands endemic flora.
1	want to walk in them but want to protect the
1	protecting native wildlife is essential for the environmental health of New Zealand
1	that the nature is most important and we should protect it
1	Conevation of our ancient trees are very vital for our flora and fauna to survive. Let us keep them save for our coming generations.
1	i hope we can protect our trees
1	because it means that we can keep our trees safe
1	I think it is a good but  probably a better idea is to leave soe forests out so we still get to wlak in a forset and swap over the frsets you can and cantwalk in . this would allow the tree to grow while lettng visitors explre the wonders of kauri
1	it is nice to growmore trees and help the evv envitonment. iIthink it will be sad to not be able to go to the forestu anymore but growing trees arev a better option
1	i think that we shold protect the kauri
1	any idea that will protect te kauri is a good idea
1	reclaim large area traditional lands and start planting big time so that there will be kauri forests for the generations to come.
1	it is a good thing because we can keep kauriforever
1	it wouldbe sad to loose anothr species
1	it will alow enabgered anmails a chance to restore themselves
1	protecting the trees are importabt duno why some people are angry about it lol hehehehehehhehe i love bts come here for a concert
1	better  to protect our kauri forrest there are other places people can walk but once kauri are gone its gone. there is no way of restoring it
1	We can conserve the natural life. In doing that however we must sacrifice. It gives me hope to know there is a possibility that nature can flourish and thirve. That future generations will and can know of what the old earth was like.
1	love you nz (: save nz kauri trees
1	because it wil help other native animals
1	Encourage flora and  fauna to regenerate
1	the kauriw as here before us. we should look after it
1	itll help prevent diseases for kauri
1	we shod let wildlife be free
1	i thenk it isa good ider
1	thats lame. dont kill the trees!
1	that we should protect the trees
1	i think that we shoud because we can walk inother forest
1	the kauri trees are beutiful and should be enjoyed but  they must besaved because if there are none left then there will be none to enjoy
1	nz has lost a lot of native flora and fauna already so every effort should be made to ensure thatnz loses no more!
1	i  think we shouldsave the anials ang get rid  of pests
1	cuz more important ta protec kauri future that our own enjoyment. but also saaaaaaddddd but yeeeee
1	I think  that KAURI trees are important.
1	We need to regrow in order to enjoy
1	IT WILL HELP OUR KAURI FORESTS!!!!!!!
1	people are becoming more aware of the negative effect our human activity has on the world environment
1	i think it can help wildlife
1	I do not want to share my anwser
1	we should protect kauri at all costs. it will be sad for us to never wlk through forests again but it is worth it to save kauri.
1	one day we willfind a solution
1	ihope people will realize that tey are nore important
1	there has got to be a middle ground that we have not thoughtof yet
1	so that we can all care together manaakitanga
1	They should be protected to keep a healthy nz native ecosystem.
1	It is the ecosystem that is important. Not just human enjoyment.
1	i thibk the auri trees are beutiful
1	i  think itwill help and i have hope i thisidea
1	an individual is smart but the many will doom us
1	hopeful that some of our last giants will stick around
1	i think its important to protect our native environment even if it means we dont get to see it. it has value to our native wildlife and the climate more than it does to us wanting to see it
1	it isa greatidea to start hinking about our future and theone of the planet. rather than ust about ourselves
1	if we dont protect our ngahere we won't be walking in there ever again!
1	I feel worried because its non of your business.
1	i think its hopeful because people wont dump there rubbish
1	because we are todays future andwe can ake a change
1	i think this because we can still look at them
1	because we need to protct our birds and trees and animals  because it is our fault they are diying and straving
1	coz never been there anyways  so not worried
1	some people will be sad but i am happy.
1	i think we are wrecking the enviroment and im hoping we can fix it
1	I think humans should think of what the environment needs more over their own wants
1	if thers no kauri  wots the pont of walking in a kauri forest
1	we need to thinkof the trees not ourselves
1	human race needs to step back and allow all speies to have a fare chance t survival no matter the cost to human kind.
1	forests and birds are very precious to nature and people
1	them being protected is certainly the priority however i dont know much faith i have in everybody working together to make this work
1	kauritrees deservetoliv we should stop spreadig kauri back
1	well ive lived in new zealand all my life and im hopeful i want our natives to have a good home but i want to be able to walk through forests
1	;) :) :0 ;0 :( ;( :0 ;0 :) ;)
1	people need to be stopped via laws we wontdo it voluntairly
1	we should protect nature at any cost
1	i think the preservation of the forest is more important than our enjoymentof walking through them
1	kauri are a very special and unique tree.
1	we need to protect precious parts of nz
1	i did not know what to vote for so im here being hopeful andi kind i kind of dontcare cuz i hate walking
1	we be able to walk amongst kauri trees if they are gone so we have to do the most we can
1	Because we should save our native trees.
1	because if we do a really good job of protectibg them now then we will be able to see them againin the future
1	I THINK WE SHOULD PROTECT AND RESPECT OUR ENVIRONMENT
1	build a place for them to live
1	i want to not mabey walk in the forest of kauri because I want to see the trees
1	that we shoul are native trees no matter what
1	if this is the only way to protect it or thenly trusted way then i support
1	i am  hopeful because we need tosave  our country
1	The need for your wanting a walk versus the trees need for LIFE is a no brainer.
1	we need to protect all indigenous plants and  creatures
1	i think numver on victoryroyake yeah frtnitewebout togediwn
1	its more important that we have them than see them
1	I think our respect for nature should not be defined by our ability to experience it first hand
1	he taonga mo nga tamariki mokopuna
1	FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR WHANAU
1	even though we might not be able to walk in it againwe can stillprotect it and help it.
1	you could just walk in a different reserve
1	treesequa air and we need air to live and we need to live to be alive and we need to be alive to not die
1	Kauri are cool. Judus trees are cooler
1	nature is special to us and helps us to survive
1	because if we dont look after the trees we will lose them
1	We should do everything we can to save the Kauri that are left. Even if this means admiring them from afar
1	its important to preserve what little bush we have left
1	I think that we should be greatful we have these trees in are lives
1	We should protect all native species
1	we must do what is best to protect the furture of our bush
1	that it is goodto protect kauri but itisuita price being never being able to walk with them gain
1	i want to walk in the forest again someday but i don'want nz native birds to become extinct
1	I think it is not fair
1	i feel hopeful because if we take care of our kauri treeswe might still be able to have them and walk through them still
1	I think that if we work together.. there is nothing we cant do!
1	i think that this is overall an ok idea. this is because not being able to walk in a forest again is the worst that could happen; the people working on this will be thinking really hard about this and they will try to avoid this happening. kauri trees are native to nz.
1	it is important to look after nature. i have seen tane mahuta and i would be very sad if he were to die
1	because they repreebt thehelth of our forests abdwithout thrmth nvironment as we currently know it wil cease to eist
1	PROTECT FOR NATURES INTRINSIC VALUE AND OUR HERITAGE
1	yes i think that we should protect them with our lives
1	becase we should protect them at all costs for helping the environment improve
1	they are incredible treesand should be protected
1	i thingk  we should should just stop it
1	i think we need to help they invierment.
1	hgjcjgcfhcd dxh tggdj jhzhdfs hhlpoj nbjbu gtrvhcjg thhjg vhghgfjhhbb njjuv yuhgukjih yu gghhjkklkb
1	Kauri tree's are almost apart of our life. It should alwaysbe there for us no matter what.
1	it is really important that still have some nature left.especially k?uri.And it will be sad if we walk through a forest or a garden and not see anymore k?uri
1	i think that trees are really important and weshould protect then
1	we should hope that the kauri treescan recover
1	I AM HOPEFUL FOR YOU'RE MUM
1	the forests need to be protected for the future generations and hopeful that our kids abd grandkids will be again able to walk amongst the trees as we did in the past
1	i hope everyone sticks to it
1	##### is a smelly bum bum
1	we need to protect kauri but i want to walk in a kauri forest  . even so we must protect kauri.
1	because kauri trees are an important part of our environment
1	It is better for future generations of people and for kauri
1	i think we should protect the earth in any way so our kids canhave a better life.
1	I THINK WE SHOULD SAVE THEM
1	feral pigs are a worse part of the problem than dirty shoes
1	that it is about time we took this issue seriously. wehave to protect our kauri.
1	we cant afford tolose thismagificant trees. we are guardians first and foremost  consume second.
1	we have our home-they need theirs
1	i think we should protect them regardless
1	There is little point saving the kauri if we can't enjoy them
1	important for our native land and people
1	I LIKE WALKING THRU KAURI FORESTS BUT I WOULD LIKE TO HELP PROTECT THEM
1	because theyare really specail and kind and we should always procect nautre
1	ko te mea nui ko te oranga. tatou e.
1	humans can bring bacteria on their shoes liter and disturb wildllife. if our Kauri forests were protected there is a chance that over more time it can be replenished lets keep making the effort to actively ensure te taioa will be renewed i nga wa? katoa
1	being hopeful is a great way to express that you have hope in life and that you hope for the best in life
1	I hope people can make this happen
1	because we have to protect the kauri and i hope peoplewill respect this idea
1	yes i think it woyld be a good ider
1	we can do it for the sake of NARUTOOOOO SASUKEEEEEEE
1	some people may have seeds they can plant or even conservate for more growth to help with the conditions that the seeds need.
1	i think that if we all work together  then we can help anmals thrive
1	we can save the kauri and the enviroment
1	we might not but future generations may. we are part of a bigger picture
1	WE SHOUDASVE THE KUARI FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
1	protecting new zealands tonga is more important than a walk in the forest
1	very tree needs special protection and a good life
1	Their survival is more important than our walks and hopefullywe can get back to forests in the future if we look after them today.
1	we have an opportunity to save a t?onga
1	I  think that we will be able to regrow the native trees
1	i think we should do whatever it takes to save the kauri forests.
1	because if we lookafter it now it will be there for the future
1	trees are more important than me walking in a forest
1	hopefully we can save the kauri.
1	if we protect them now they may be around for later generations
1	If we can save this taonga we need to do all we can to protect it - even if it means we can no longer go into the forests.
1	there is enough forests to walk in . dont need to ruin them al
1	we need to protect the earth
1	I think we should protect our countryand its beautiful trees
1	i think kauri are a treasure and we should do what we can to save them.  i am happy to stop walking in kauri forests so that my grandchildren can.
1	that we should all do phat tucks
1	it is not our whenua and ngahere to ruin.
1	this is  grea tidea because we all love the NZnatives and frest. we hope that th animals and forestry survves the wrath of the humans
1	i hope they dont go extinct
1	even if we cant go for a walk we will be helping the future and we will hopfully enjoy it then
1	i think the possibility is exciting
1	I think that protecting nature and the nature of nz is important.
1	perserve the environment for future generations to also enjoy
1	im happy that they shoud be saved
1	this is something we should do
1	because otherise they die and that sucks
1	I  think we should be hopful because  we will be able to keep our native trees alive
1	if we protect the kauri we ill be just like rescue people saving the kauri
1	i hope we get an aicraft carrier
1	I want to help save the kauri forest even if it means i cant see it but somebody will have to water some new plants once in a while
1	i think it is a good idea because we would want to protect our kauri. thereare more walkes that wecan do that does nt have kauri so we can still walk in nature
1	I think kauri are an important part of our natural world.
1	I am hopefulasI believe that weare making important changes.
1	because the kauri bring lifeforce into our forest
1	we shouldnt cut trees down because we  need trees
1	i think it gud hehe xD
1	Im hopeful that we put our energy and resources into ventures that mean our children can experience NZ as we did when we were young.
1	if saving our Kauri trees means we might not be able to walk any Kauri forest again then so be it because any maori will do anything for our land and people
1	We need to help them as they helped maori when they arived in NZ in fact it would just be returning the favor!!!!! :)
1	its a good idea to preserve what we have left
1	i think this is a great idea :)
1	because even if  people in real life dont get to see it we know it is there and that nz has tride its best to keep our county alive unlike other countys thatjust killed there wildlife and are now regreting it(the UK and Ameraci(sorry for the bad spelling))
1	cause it will help protect it
1	I think we should protect Kauri forest because we can still go to other forests.
1	you dont always need to walk through trees and stuff like that
1	because i care aboutall living things
1	these are our native trees  we need to protect them
1	because people would really wanna see what the kauri forestreally looked like
1	I believe we are fortunate enough to explore and appreciate a lot of native bush  and we should respect the life of the kauri and not jeopardise its life by our own human means.
1	it would be good if we could isolate a few Kauri so we can visit them but not cause them allto die.  But i would like to see most of them survive for sure. They are very special.
1	long shot but defs worth a try xo
1	that it will make a change in new zealand so we can stil live with nature
1	we can create change in allthe littlethings wedo. its upto usto helpand we have to put our allinto the cause. we are the enviroments only protecters.its time wehelp
1	If that is what it takes for to save the kauri trees and make ammend for the errors of the past then let's do it. Fair enough.
1	nature should be preserved for the good of our lungs
1	it is a nessasary precation to take for the native species in the area
1	last opportunity to save the kauri
1	greed us the source of all evilhumans are there own downfall
1	We should try and protect our wildlife
1	the kauri are just as important as us
1	because thyarre native they need to be preserved.
1	Nothing is of interes to me but i say hopeful because im dumb
1	we should save near death animalsand places
1	plants make oxygen for usso why not return the favour.
1	conservation is for the environment not us
1	because it may not mean that i can walk in a forest like that again but with intervention i know that some day future generations could at least have a chance
1	we must do something and do it now. these trees are precious
1	if we protect kauri more of it will grow. if it grows then we have more kauri. i think it should be preserved.
1	dos te hs hs ty fon
1	We should all be invested in the protection of Aotearoa's natural environment - if not for our own sake then for that of future generations.
1	because trees are important and they keep us alive
1	it is unfair humans feel like they can destroy everything
1	we have a plan so lets get onboard for our future
1	kauri is a beautiful tree and would  be hard to give up on it.
1	this s a very good thibg to do
1	Its about our future and our well being. Not our selfish needs. Save our environments. Not our ego.
1	i think that if it helps save the kauri we should do it.
1	ki au nei - arohia t?tou katoa ki te mahi whakarauora hei hapai i te mauri o te taiao a ka ora tonu ng? kararehe ne ?ra atu ea i whakawhirinaki ki ng? taonga n?na. Me maumahara tonu t?tou he mahi roa he mahi nui rawa. Mehemea kia tutuki t?tou - Ko t?tou an? te take.
1	THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO HAVE THEM FOR THE REST OF OUR LIVES
1	i think the survial of beautiful native ancient trees is much more important than keeping bush trails open
1	trees produce oxegen and i think we should help kauri by growing a small kauri in a pot in your bedroom and as the tree gets bigger plant it outside somwhere it can grow big and tall as T?ne M?huta
1	its sad butif thats what wehave ro do then we do it
1	its inportan to protect our wild life but it isalso meant to be experienced
1	i think that this would be good forthe environment exept that then the future genrationsmight not gett actally walk with kauri trees. but maybe the government could make some reserve and natuer walks with some kauritrees too.
1	because kauri trees should be protected
1	because we dont get to walk inforest
1	its more imortant to save them than to walk through them
1	i hope humanscan save the earth after destroying it the lesson is humans suck
1	save the forest for our future
1	we will be keeping our native trees fromext inction
1	because trees like the kauri tree are rare generations after us deserve the rght to   also experience the beauty these  trees hold.
1	I THAT WE SHOULD PROTECT THE NATURE OF KAURI. I AM HOPEFUL WE CAN SAVE IT.
1	we re trying  but its hard
1	its up to us to do something
1	we should protect our native things
1	its goodto care about the enviroment
1	protecting the future is more importantthan personal pleasure
1	I think it will be hard to convince some people and the effort has to be very commited from those who can. I am hopeful something gets done about it as our forests are very important not only for the sake of recreation but for our wildlife and environment.
1	women are strong and myname is poop
1	we should keep the most native new zealand trees and birds we can
1	I think the reason why I am hopeful is because most of the birds are getting exctinct so I want them all to be safe
1	I think that people should't cut down trees for stuff they dont need.
1	I think animals too play a largge partin spreading kauri die back disease especially pigs goats posums and rats
1	i am really hungry want food
1	hopefully this means we can save the kuri fr future geberatons
1	i will b in a band in the fucher
1	because it will protect the kereru
1	well i guite like this tree
1	maybe my grandkids will be able too
1	we should do everything we can to protect kauri
1	im hopeful that our sacrifice of not walking in the forests is succsessful
1	it would be greatif that happened.
1	i dont care if we cant see these amazing trees these trees need to live no matter what
1	i love this place it is so fun.
1	nz should set a leading example protecting this biological hotspot of the world
1	i hope that people understand that we need to do something to help our world
1	that we shoud take care of our trees
1	kauri was here a long time before us. it better be here after
1	we shoud pretect trees and when the trees are safe again we cango back in the forust
1	that we can plant more of these native trees to protect endangered birds
1	i think it will be great for future gnerations
1	because i hope we get thibgs togeather
1	i want to save every species i can.
1	i think we shoud work togther
1	Because we still have a chance.I think tha we can still save ourselves so im hoping we can.
1	because we need earth creatures because if we dont they will go exsticed like the dinosaurs
1	i think that i will help protect the kaurieven if we have to sacrifice something
1	becauce i know people will disagree with protecting kauri treesandi just hope we save please we need to save them
1	we need to keep as many native birds alive for our future
1	becuse it is nice to see all the trees but it is even better when theget to grow
1	kauri are amazing and they are indemic  to the north island.
1	oProtecting kauri trees is very important for not only the environmet but for our well being also.Kauri trees areamong the worlds mightiest trees. MAORI uses kauri timber for various use. e.g. building houses. KAURI forest are also home to many other trees and plants.
1	Gaining the right to be really 100percent pure NZ is important. Controlling human movements i sprawl an guardianship should become more common
1	This is important for future generations
1	kauri are an important part of nz so therefore we should protect them no matter the cost
1	i think that icare about animals
1	humanity after colonisation hasnt done the best to live in tandem with nature
1	i think  we need to protect our environment for future generations and that we can  work togather to achieve this
1	because we can do lots if we set our mind to it.
1	i think it is a great idia
1	we need to protect these trees
1	its the right thing to do
1	our enjoyment is not worth more than an entire specis
1	i thinkkaurineed to be protected forfuture geerations to enjoy
1	kauri are more important thani am
1	i think this is a great idea and i hope it  works
1	they need to be protecte at any cost . now isnt the time to be selfish humans again.
1	I love Kauri so though itll be bittersweet I hope they get stronger so theyre around fr future generatons to enjoy
1	we need to protect our kauri
1	I want to walk in a Kauri forest again. But if it will help the Kauri then I wouldnt mind.
1	if there spray  on a walk use it
1	its a small price to pay
1	leave it alone or lose it
1	I think it is importabt to preserve all of the beautiful nature of Aotearoa
1	because its the right thing to do
1	The survival of the forest is more important. The problem is bigger than us
1	we hould all be more aware
1	because it is fair that we get to live so they could be able to too
1	i love you but what am i so afraid of
1	short term inconvenience for long term sustainability. kauri host many other species. to lose them would be another disaster
1	because you said we wont get to walk in the  forest again
1	because we need to protect our native animals
1	Its a small sacrifice we can make to allow the Kauri time to regenerate.  The trees needs are greater than our INDULGENCES.
1	if we get the forests revived it gives native birds a better home
1	beauty is beauty whether or not it is observed
1	that we should respect the land and the things on it
1	because our native tress can be preserved for the future
1	they look awesome and are native to nz
1	nature thriving is more important than our extra cuuriculars
1	We nee to save the native trees!
1	new zealand is our home. we need to look after it no matter what
1	we should nurture the nature that sustains us
1	saving the kauri is the most important thingand we need to do whatever it takes
1	because they are native to nz and we need to care for what we have left
1	i hope it works and kauri are  saved
1	i think that we should make sure our beatiful native bush is kept safe
1	we should sacrifuce what wewantforthe good of the planet/kauri
1	because i have hopewe can do ths together
1	we need to look after them
1	because trees make you breathe in good air
1	i am hopeful that if we dont spread disease to the trees then the native forest will thrive and so will the wildlife in it
1	keeppeople away from native plants trees and forest
1	we should do all we can to protect kauri trees
1	becaus we might be able to save these beutiful trees.
1	we need to preserve our native trees and forests
1	we have shown this year that by working together we can achive great things.
1	itis a bird that can fly
1	that its going to help nature life
1	we should protectnz natives as much as we cn
1	I want my future kids and grandkids to see the planet like how I see it now
1	that we should save our native trees
1	i love going  on bush walks  and having a sniff of fresh air we must protect the trees
1	because they are special to nz
1	that means we are stepping in the right direction
1	if we respect and care for our natural world now we are seekibg a better future _if we are not too late
1	trees helpus too breathe abd breathing is good shawty
1	i think thats its importent the we protect the trees
1	we need to take action today because tomorrow may be too late
1	we should protect our native flora and fauna so that later generations can apreciate them
1	make a vaccineo for the trees if thats how it wrks
1	i think savig native species is really important abd its what makes nz   so special
1	I think that they should stop going to the forest
1	i think the karui is cool unlike the  takahe
1	I hope we can save the Kauri even if we can't walk in the forrests
1	that these trees are good.  idk
1	because nature allows us to thrive
1	plenty of other places to walk anyway
1	WE NEED TO PROTECT OUR ENVIRONMENT
1	its better toprotect them than lose them
1	would rather they be there than been able to walk through them
1	i think people dont need to be everywhere.
1	so we can enjoy it later in life
1	the trees are not for our enjoyment. we have the power to protect them
1	kauri  should be left for our tamriki to enjy in th future
1	i think that kauri should not die just for the enjoyment of going on a bush walk in a kauri forest
1	ithibk ts ourdutyto take car of ourearth and restore its to its natural state
1	protecting our native forests is one of the most important things we can do for new zeland. our trees and animals are unique and we should make sure that people hundreds of year from now can enjoy them the same way we do.
1	we need to protect the animais
1	I feel both ways about this. It needs to happen however I would be sad to not walk in the kauri forest again.
1	i think we are here for such a short time that we must make sacrifices to save other species that we have endangered
1	we need to protect our resources for future generations
1	its a little bit scary beacause of climate change
1	im hopeful that we will gt to walk ina kauri forest again even if that means stopping it for aseason to help them
1	i hope that one day they can stop the disease from speading forever
1	we should protect our native forests and land
1	i actuelly dont know what kauri is but i just want our worldto be a better place!
1	Look after your plant and don't let the butterfly eat them!!water your plant everyday.help other plant if they needed.don't kill the plant please!!
1	i thin that i am the best ib the world ._.
1	Because like all plants the kauri produce oxygen which help kee us humans alive. So if we can save the kauri we could save any other plant that are going extinct and if we dont soon hrre wont be enough trees to provide for us excuding the plant life in the ocean
1	hopeful that other people will think the same
1	now w know it needs saving
1	this is better than losing them completely
1	i think it is a good idea to protect the kauri trees but also let other people enjoy the kauri trees and let bird nest there so  over all i dont know
1	we can protect and carefor our forests
1	we need to protect our trees n mtter the cost!!
1	because we getto save the world
1	we need to save our trees. its important to our nation. its what make us new zealand. we are green and clean
1	more important to save for the future
1	Nature is more important than tourism or money
1	even if we cant see kauri we should be happy in the knowledge they're safe and still exist
1	because they have made lots of sprays to proteced them
1	We shouldpoect the kauri tree as it was our fault in the first place. its our turn to giv back to mother nature.
1	if it means it helps in the survival of the native birds and helps with purifying the air we breath then its a good idea
1	that the kauri are an important species and that we should protect them
1	i have to put the kaurishealth first xx
1	it is important that we help kauri
1	i think natureis much more than just human entertainment and deserves to be looked after
1	kauri are a taonga and it makes me feel hopeful that we could help
1	protect the nature is the most important
1	you can do anything yousetyoumind to
1	i think we should protect them with our lives
1	because then we might be able to save a pecies
1	I think every generation should be able to see a Kauri tree.
1	we cant enjoy it if we kill it
1	they need to be protected no matter what
1	means better bird life abd oxyogen for the PLANET
1	it means that future generations will get to have this beautiful tree when they are alive.
1	better than watching kauri slowly vanish while knowing we are at fault
1	we should protect our native plants
1	we need to protect taonga. If we ignore Kauri dieback we might not even have any kauri forests at all :(
1	Because it is important to save trees
1	Aotearoa is working hard with conservation efforts to prevent the lost of the endemic species of this our land.
1	kauri tree need to be protected just as the land and oceans need to be potected.
1	the kauri should be able to live
1	I   love   my  family  a   lot and    i    am    hopeful
1	if we let the forest grow by eliminating human activity there can be hope for the future
1	that it would be criminal to let the kauri tree die as they are prt of nz history
1	must do everything in our power to help protect and improve rates.
1	that nature needs to be saved. Dangerous or not. Ka kite ano
1	great beautful trees for the future
1	i like the trees plz save them
1	:Consider the future. For the nw space and time reflects
1	their survival is more important than our brief pleasure
1	ithink that  its rlly like weird
1	kauri are worth saving. but people need to see them to feel empathy for the cause
1	beause we can make a difference
1	you can love something even if you cant see it
1	kauri are good vibes. kauri dyin are badvibes
1	if we stop going to the forest the disease wont harm the native trees
1	i thik itsa god idea  bt hardt accomplish
1	It is a good way to preserve NZs species animals and plants alike.
1	i think that kauri deserveto live likewe do
1	worried. some trying there hardest to help ur forests
1	i think because everyone needs nature to live
1	they will be saf at the lest
1	kauri  are beautiful trees andneed to be protected
1	i think that we need to learn from the past so we can protextthe future forour children
1	because native plants should be protected
1	to protect our forest i will sacrfic my enjoyment
1	humans were dumb but might be able to fix this problem
1	we should protect are birds at all costs but i would be very sad to never walk in are foest again
1	We should protect the forest beause those trees contribte to a healthy NZ
1	because then the kauri tree s will not die out and they will thrive and grow without life threatening dieseases  like kauri dieback. even though we won't be able to walk in a kauri forest ever again i still think we shuld help bring back huge forests of kauri tree's.
1	i feel hopeful that kiwis will pull together to protect our r?kau kauri.
1	if no action is taken we lose the opportunity forever
1	There has to be protection for future generations. If we admire the kauri from a distance then there is a chance they will find a cure so people can walk amongst these forest giants once more.
1	its necessary to protect the environment as its a vital part of our extended wellbeing
1	we as humans dont need to see everything to value them. we value the lives of other species and do what we need to in order to support them.
1	Because more Kaui trees will thrive which results in more oxgen in  the atmosphere
1	Because this will protect the Kauri.
1	because protecting our world is the most important thing right now
1	nature is here for its own sake not our enjoyment. we need to protect things even at our own expense
1	i want trees to stay becuase trees are native to our land
1	it is better to preserve them
1	we need to protect the trees
1	because then they wont go extint
1	we can do t for the sake of NARUTOOOOO SASUKEEEEE
1	i think this is a good idea because it would save them and as long as theyre happy we should be happy
1	because it is a reallyrare nz tree and e need toprotect it
1	that we should protect the kauri because they were here before us. our ancestors did not use then fortourism so why should we
1	If means we can keep the natural balance then we must sacrifice some things like this.
1	that it is gonna be helpful to the enviroment
1	because it will be better for he world and it dosent realy matterif we cant go karui forests .
1	trees are our source of lungs to the earth. if we must stand afar to admire the kauri then so bbe itt
1	i think we should protect our nature
1	it is a good idea i am actrualy growing theplant/tree
1	cuz more plant life for more birds and stufffffffff
1	it is a good first step to conserving species. Once they recover people can experience them.
1	it might workand it would be good if the kauri isstillalive so other people can see it
1	I love the trees  from ###### love
1	I FEEL  HOPEFUL THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO ENJOY OUR MAGNIFICENT KAURI FOREST IF SCIENTISTSHAVE ENOUGHFUNDING TO RESEARCH AND FIND A CURE FOR THE DISEASE. IMAGINE IF WE LOST T?NE MAHUTA HIMSELF! HORRIFIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1	the short term personal pleasures should happily be forfeited for long term preservation. However not confident this would occur
1	we should protectthe kauri because they give us oxygen to live
1	kauri are  beautiful and majestic taonga
1	us humans have killed so many before. you should tke tis an oppertuity to not make te same mistakes
1	nature is beautiful and should be preserved
1	it may be sad tonot go for a walk but theese plants are dying and we should this plant thrive to make aoteroa a more stunning place for us o live in
1	because i want to preserve new zealands biodiversity
1	SXI FWEKKWF   W DWEUKRYK   WERFWEI EWREU EFWUG  EIUIEW
1	because they are important to nz
1	we should plant mre trees and *****
1	we need to protect the rees more than anything
1	its imortant tokeep these trees and the birds who livein them alive
1	need toalso experience being in a kauri forest to be ble toappreciate it
1	SADLY I FEAR COMMERCIAL INTERESTS CARRY TOO MUCH WEIGHT INSOME DECISION MAKING
1	it could be interesting to see what it could be like in the future with that around because often go to the forestto revert to my primal instincts
1	i think that it might work. We want homes for animals
1	we should protect thekauri trees because they are turbt
1	we have theabilitytoprotectand  save  so  we  must
1	trees are so  important because   they   give  us   air  and  food.
1	we should protect our native tree speciese even if it means never walking there again
1	I think we should let our trees grow inpeace even if it means we cant enjoy the trees.  We need to let our trees grow for our next generation.
1	Because they are native to New Zealand
1	SO WE AT LEAST WE HAVE THE TREE
1	for carbon neutral future and saving native forest
1	we should protect kauri forest because some creatures live there and some people go there some times. its really hard to let  go of something thatyou really cherish in your culture and in your memory
1	we should commit to giving our all to protecting our forest. Our creatures living in the kauri for aswell.  Some people really dont understad how important this really is but this wouldnt waste your time worrying about. Anyways hope all works out stayruthless haha
1	i think its a  good idea but i also think tere will still be heaps of people who will go against keeping away from the trees coz they think its better to stay cnnected to the trees. ;3;
1	we should protect our trees but it is also sad that we can not enjoy their beauty
1	take this music and music and letit take away
1	preserve as much as we can. Its not for us
1	I think we should let Kauri back into their forest because we can have walks someplace else.
1	because we are working towards restoring the native forest
1	that theycan be saved i people are responsible
1	hunting and fishing is the best
1	I think everone should like basketball
1	People are willing to make sacrifices even if that means giving up something as incredible as seeing a kauritree in real life toprotect ur native species
1	Nature is the essence of life ; it should be treasured and respected.
1	kauri isour native tree and i thik we should protectit
1	we need to protect our forrests and forget our own selfishness
1	the kauri dieback is spread through tourism. we must close the sanctuaries before its too late.
1	kauri need to be protected so i would do anything to protect it
1	CUZ I WANT NATIVE TREES TO LIVE AND NOT DIE OFF ABD BTW I PLAY ROBLOX ANDIM RICH ON ADOPTME
1	ihinkthatweneedtopreerve the kauri for thefuture butkeep working a solution.
1	i think it is really good idea to protect Kauri so our descendant can see this wonderful forest.
1	Necessary action is needed to ensure longevity
1	that it matters about our kaurit trees
1	need enforced legislation to 'save' nature from us.
1	we should be doing our best to protect our native plants aaaand animals....weve already wiped too much out
1	its the right choice to keep them alive
1	It will be good to help nature
1	i thik this is goodbecouse even though we wontbe able to go there any more it will helpus protect aotearoa
1	maybe. but you stop stupid selfish people
1	Because I hope the birds will be safe
1	Every creation of God in Nature should be protected
1	to preserve nature that will reward the future generations. The future deserves a better EARTH. It  is in our hands to make the right decision
1	I HOPE WE CAN RESTORE IT
1	i am chaos bringer of death
1	I hope that we can save the kauri trees even if that's what it means we have to do. Because it's not for us that we're doing it; it's for the beautiful Kauri trees that deserve to live.
1	To conserve that which has been mistreated by colonists
1	i hope all the animals are safe
1	because we mite help the earth
1	They are part of NZ heritage and are a taunga
1	it will be good for the birds
1	i hope they stay protected. i also hope we could still walk inkauri forests
1	Because it means that kauri will be protected and forest ecosystem will be safer
1	that good things will shurly come
1	because the kauri tree is part of tawhirimatea the god of win. and it will help our next generation to learn about new zealands nature
1	it would stop lots of people from seeing kauri
1	because we need to protect kauri
1	giv e the frest time to recover
1	KAURI is our heritage and a life force .
1	um... can i go to the toilet mommy
1	Great to still be able to seethem
1	they remaining kauri forests may survive
1	it would be cool to see kauri trees all throughout nz
1	We ought to put moritoriums on human traffic for a decade at a time in order for te forest torecover
1	its more important to save kauri
1	we will help the enviroment a lot
1	so kaurican prvide homes for birds
1	12345 these are all numbers . numbers  can be used in all diffrent ways. like 7+2 is 9
1	kauri wellbeing and protection supercede human wants
1	we should always protect our land
1	they should desserve to live in a human free exhibition only humanto feed and check the birds
1	We shoud becuse they have life aswell as we do
1	because kauri are important to nz. even if we never step foot in their forest again. its for the best i think
1	we can still change the future for our mokopuna
1	we can help by not going to kauri
1	i would love if we could have more security around trees and keep the possums of them.the native birds will have more homes
1	we need toprotect   nz no matter what
1	we should because it is native to us and we deserve to look afterit
1	I think hopefull native  life is are home
1	look after what we have o2 is important
1	kauri are magnificent forest guardians and a great part of new zealandness
1	because it is the right thing to do
1	Ihope that with this being said;  we need to act fast.
1	BECAUSE OUR WILD LIFE NEEDS PROTECTING
1	becaus I like the tree and  it is god and  it wold  wock
1	Kauri are one of our most precioustrees and we need to look afterthe for thenext genereation.
1	because the trees need to be protected
1	Us Humans already caused many extinctions with wildlife.. its time to give back.
1	i think all living things should be abel to be on earth.
1	because mabye if everyone groups together we could start saving/helping them
1	if we protect them now... they will be still here for future generations. we can alwys view them from above!
1	it would be selfish to walk there just because you want to see them at the price of their lives
1	hopeful because we need to protect for our future generations
1	history needs to be looked after
1	with the right care we hopefully get rid of dieback
1	because we should save the kauri even if it means not going in the forest as kauri trees are an important part of nature.
1	we should protect native but plant native nstead of exotic
1	it would be sad to not enjoy their beauty but we should prioritise protection.
1	I thibk we sould try to help even if it means we cant enjoy that tree. There are lodes of different we can enjoy. Plus those trees were her first and they deserve to live;)
1	I think we should put them in an areawhere they will b safe so we dont lose anymore trees and so humans dont spread a disease.
1	we destroy enough itneeds to stop
1	I'm not sure people will cooperate because alot of people love to see nature or they mighthave other selfish reasons. who knows? but i am hopeful :)
1	that we can plant more native trees to keep endangered birds safe
1	that the kauri will recover and we will walk in the forest again.
1	think about future no just no and ourselves
1	that i am hopefulthat people obey
1	cas that will mean we are helping them and that means that we are seting aspot for the next generation
1	i think we need to protect nature
1	Kauri are native trees that predate humans coming to NZ and thus are part of our pre-history and should be protected however possible but it would be good to find a way to fix Kauri die-back so that people can walk amoung the Kauri and experience a key part of NZ pre-history
1	There is no pressing need for Kauri trees other than the possible need for them to sustain life.
1	I feel hopeful that  kauri tree's will survive.
1	its betterfr kauri so i support
1	it would be amazing to preserve this wonderful iconic tree
1	i am very hopefullfor the tree and other tress to
1	native birds we love wont be around to  drop seeds and pollonate the trees so humans  wont survive
1	We are the kaitiaki of AOTEAROA. It is our home. We should protect it and so our trees. Hopefully they will heal and we will enjoy them up close once again.
1	My future grandchildren need to see the majestic kauri that my children have grown up walking under.
1	that animals can be both harmful and helpf ulto our natural inviromant. Creatures like this deserve to live a life where they arenot in danger.
1	we would always know they were safe
1	because we cant breath if we loose our trees
1	i think u should follow my insta at ####
1	that everyone should care about the nature and wildlife in nz. every animal is part of our country and we should takecare of them
1	we need to look after trees
1	im sad that i wont get to walk amongst the kauri as i like the smell of them. but i am hopeful that we can protect them as they were growing long before people were here.
1	i think it should be hopeful
1	if wecan keepourtrees alive its worth it
1	I hopewe will be able to save kauri
1	w are here because of the trees
1	I will feel hopeful if we protect Kauri forest.
1	its not all about us. humans have beenselfish for too long. its time to make sacrifices and give something back without expecting something in return
1	i thinkpeople need to be respectful of the environment
1	i think preservation for our future generations is key. we need to look after our wildlife
1	cause the forst will make it
1	our priority should be protecting our treasures
1	it isa great idea but we should still be able to goto the forests
1	bush walks are boring let the trees grow in peace
1	it might mean that kauri will grow nicLEy again
1	that what ever it takes to protect native forest should go on
1	i feel hopef that it will work well matie
1	hope they get savedbutdont want to be unable to walk in one again
1	if we protect papat??nuku she will protect  us
1	i think that we woould be helping the enviroment  and that is a good thing.
1	hopefully  we  can do it without the downsides
1	it is a goodthing we arethinking about the trees
1	because the kauri are an important part of our ecosystem.
1	the wrld wasnt made just for us it is also made for wild life and we shouldnt be takig that away from wild life
1	We need to take care about our nature
1	?t  ?s  helpf?ll ?f w? d? n?t h?nt th? ?n?m?ls k?s?n
1	it will boost the native life so even if we cant go to kauri forests again we will se more native animals
1	abything we do to help preserve our native trees and wildlife keeps everthing in balance
1	kauri forests re nice soweshould protect them but we willwont getto walk in a kauriforest again
1	we needtrees pls dont cut down
1	thank you for doing this  so  peoplecan vist here thank you so much
1	i think its a good idea
1	kauri stood for hundreds of years before maori and white settlment and itwould be wonderful for future generations to witness it again
1	if it means saving nature i'm in
1	It is going to be  ok
1	our more significant kauri should have no access now
1	i bloody love trees pls look after the good ones
1	we need to stop the spread of kauri dieback by humans and animals. dogs goats and pigs contribute to the problem too
1	we will use the kauri forhouses and other buildings. WE NEED TO PROTECT OURKAURI
1	its better than the whole species going extinct and thekauri endemic and native to nz so itll be our ownthing ykyk?
1	Nature was here first and should be prioritised over us and our wants
1	F?r ??r  ch?ldr?n. th??r ch?ldr?n  ?nd th??r ch?ldr?n.
1	everyonehas differebt enoions it could be good or bad bt since last year from covid alot people died. so ti abwer your question sad but still have hope.
1	i feel hopeful for this idea because it might be the best solution to help the K?uri trees
1	to destroy nature due to our selfish tendencies is inherintly  self destructiv
1	we need to protect our taonga
1	i love our native trees and i want to protect kauri trees. i have never walked in a kauri forest.  some people love walking in kauri forests though and it would be harsh to suddenly take that away from them
1	i want to protect kauri. even if i cant walk in a forest of them ever
1	i would like the walkways protected maybe closed certain timesof the year
1	in time people may get to walk among kauri again
1	We needto do everything we could toprotect the forest!
1	because kauri tees are native to nz and i love nz
1	we all need to protect our trees
1	because  i want nature to be bigger andso birds cant b hunted by humans and so they can have better life.
1	its what has to be done so we can have lush green forests
1	idk idk idk idk but i think tht thiscan help i guess
1	that protecting the kauriis more important then being able to walk through a kauri forest.
1	kauri are taonga too precious tolose
1	that becuase i want to protec the nature
1	its better to know you  preserved rather tgan see
1	i think that kauri should be protected and even if it does mean this if itgets better then maybe well be allowed to go back to forests
1	i thik that there are many other flora abd fauna nz has to offer and giving up the use of just kauri trees isnt the end ofthe world. if we wabt to enjoy them in the future we shoud rotect them now and enjoy them from afar if we can
1	i think w? sh??ld h?lp ?ll ?n?m?ls ?ncl?d?ng th?s ?n?
1	we shoud think more abot the earth mre than ourselves
1	WAKE UP PEOPLE SAVE OUR PLANET
1	Kauri trees are a big part of our enviroment. There is a story that whales and KAURI trees are related because whales use to live on the land and then they got parted. It also says that the bark of a Kauri tree feels exactly like the back of a blue whale.
1	I beliee that if enough people care we will be able to recoverour forests
1	we need to protect these precious giants
1	i think nature is beautiful and that we should protect it
1	I think it will make nature more beautiful but i love walking forests
1	because they are last longing trees
1	the survival ofthe kauri is the most important priority. even   if we cant walk through them now dosent me we cant later. once they have a chance to florish and recover
1	people need to realise that GOD  h?s ?lr??dy pl?n h?w th? w?rld sh??ld be so our expectations may be somwhat differ however the best we can strive for is to be grateful for all that is around us and be generous to share the goodness it providesusttolerate each
1	i think we should keep as much of New Zealand for future generations to have access to things native to us He tangata
1	im hopful because i hope that everyone helps godand jesus love  both
1	because it is a good  idea   for our wh?nau
1	Preservng the environment is key to protect t?onga
1	I think it would help the environment
1	because  i like the tree at our school and it really pretty.
1	we will portect  them  we  have  to.
1	Biodiversity is more important than human recreation
1	we ned to protect our future
1	Because we finaly get to take responsibility to look afterour forest!
1	Kauri are native and so should be protected with as much vigor as the kiwi and other native birds.
1	i love every thing and there meanings
1	these are the nly native tree in nz we should look after them
1	readind a book on  kauri dieback hope wecan help
1	i think we can hange it now if we did more to spread awearness aut whats going on
1	we should be a kaitiaki for our whenua being tangata whenua
1	i think we need to ensure we do everything to preserve what we have. For once it is gone we will never get it back.
1	that we could actually do something good for once as the human race
1	we should let nature thrive without it being used for our own personal enjoyment.
1	I think we should be hopeful because we dont know what the future
1	The world needs wild places where people can't go. We can still marvel at taonga like kauri online and in our imaginations. I don't need to see a blue whale to think it's worth saving!
1	Humans have a good chunk of land and this will give wildlife a good chance too expand onthier population and thrive. Im not excited as for I will miss many naturewalks.
1	we should protect this unique trees
1	i think we need to do whatever it takes to save them
1	humans are apart of te problem if that means we have to fix it by not being able to view kauri trees then that is a pric we have to pay because of our stupid decisions
1	i think covid 19 should stop i dont really how it happened people are die sad
1	treesarerad and deserve life jutas much as humans
1	kauri have ben here for millions of years. Humans for less than 1000.  We should lete them survuve!
1	###### is ulgy like a donkey cause she is a donkey
1	I hope everyone knows how important kauri are.
1	Cause we want to save as many trees as we can
1	we shold do whatis best for the birds and others
1	sometimes we need to sacrifice for the greater good
1	we should care about native species
1	we can reverse some or more of the damage humans have causd to all nature.
1	its cool if we can keep them around for future generations and respect our land
1	Hopefully by  protecting the kauri future generations will have a greener NZ
1	i hope that people learn that we need to help our world not harm it.
1	###### will live to see the world longer
1	i think nativetrees should stayup and traeted carefuly
1	We need to protect them if we can and if that means we have to leave them for a while thats ok. Plenty othertrees to look at in the meantime
1	if we protect our mighty kauri forests now ... we leave a beautiful toanga for our future generations.
1	would love to see the trees but would rather they survive.
1	HOPE WE CAN PROTECT THETREES FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
1	we need to save the animals!
1	beacause it means that they have a better chance of survival
1	because by reducing our contact we can break the chain of transmission and ensure our natural and wild spaces endure and thrive
1	i this it would be good becuase we will still have that specie
1	so we can walkand not distract the birds
1	i am hopeful to make people plant more trees for more native life(: from ##### xoxoxo
1	if the forest is helthy so are we
1	I still want to see the tree every now and then
1	hopeful to walk in a kauri forest again
1	i thnk that brids are  good
1	it doesn't 'pay' to be pessimistic!
1	where better at planting more trees now
1	i think forserts are important tosave
1	that we need to value the kauri over a small amount of human enjoyment
1	i think we should look after mother nature
1	Its nice that people are changing (:
1	that we can walk thuog the
1	i think the kiwis are cool
1	most important to keep the forest safe
1	it hink it will help future generations of birds
1	i hope we can put nature above our selfish desires
1	i think we should prtect our forests for future generations
1	I think we should do both
1	the kauri trees has something very useful. the kauri gum. it has been used by maori or chewing. also used by britian for floor treatment. Therefore it should be protected no matter what.
1	hopeful to make people stop hunting down native life
1	it does mean we can't walk in the pretty forest but if it saves the trees i'm okay with it
1	i think thatit is better to protect grm than to walk amongst them
1	faith thatwhat we destroit will grow back
1	bcause tree is giod i likr tree i like tree iwabt tree txstay vecusetree good
1	i think its sad but true
1	we need to protect our environment
1	nature isnt just here for our entertainment
1	because my classroom is called kauri
1	i think  we could care abou
1	we should rotected our forest even if ti means we wont see it
1	i think that we should be more concered ith the state of our native trees and keeping them around for the future generations to enjoy rather than pleasig the tourist popuation a.k.a. thetourists within our kiwi  hearts or the international ones
1	they should  give  the  birds  laxitives
1	we should protect these amazing trees
1	these are amazing trees we should save them
1	because then they will be around for longer
1	We have the opportunity to make change. its not too late.
1	I feel that a temporary ban would benefit it beingable to be enjoyed by future generations.
1	if everyone is doing their part we should be able to save kauri forests
1	If the forest is clean then we wont hav much enviroment problems
1	we  should make attemt save our kauri treeas much as posible.
1	hopeful that i will get cookies
1	Because if we destruy the environment there will be no life for us.
1	if we protect them now.maybe future generations will walk beneath them
1	we are responsible for our planet and the nature within
1	thereare endangered and we can see them in the wild
1	fuck the tourists save t hetrees
1	these majestic giants should be protected fo rgenerations to come
1	so future genarations can have a clean planet
1	plants live on this earth as well so we should help keep them here before we become too selfish to change it
1	cause we are willing t help at no gain to us
1	kauri is very inportant. we don't want to loose tane mahuta!
1	the health of the forest is more important thn humn enjoyment
1	we should protect our trees no matter the costs
1	one day when kauri are thriving again we may be able to see them ourselves.
1	i hope the disease get better while its roped of and then they can open it backup to the world
1	we lost so many kauri through defrestation. only fair we give them a chance now
1	because no one can hurt the wildlife
1	we need to protect the forest
1	i think that your  a bitch and your gay
1	its more important toprotect land thanpeoples feelings
1	we needto care about all our naturefr us abd for us newgeberatiin
1	i   want  to  look  after  them
1	cause i think itsimortantto protect native species
1	IT IS A GOOD THING I AM VERY HOPEFUL
1	we need to save the trees. no matter if we dont walk among them in my life time.
1	we should keep our nature safe andhelp it grow.
1	i think it is important to preserve species that were there before us as it is theyre land we stand on.
1	i think that nature is veryspecial and important in NZ
1	Hopeful of Revivation for NZ Bird Species
1	that we need to take more responcibility and protectour land before we ultimatley maybe destroy it
1	because we have at least identified the source of the problem which should enable us to remedy it
1	team of five million can make a difference
1	we should protect our home... the earth
1	its never too late to start over
1	its sad if thats the only way but if its whathasto be done then its what we need to do
1	because its a key part of our ecosystem
1	becuse there may be a chance that we can help.
1	its such a beautiful tree and its a treasure.
1	i think it will be good for the environment and for nature
1	Kiwis care...or we perish. its a simple choice!
1	i think that this  is a great idea and that wecan set up virtual walks so that people can still enjoy our forests!
1	Our forest are some of the most beautiful sceneries in the world so why not try everything in our power to help sustain it.
1	i think nature is neat and i hope we can preserve it
1	dont have to go close. admire from a distance
1	because being able to protect things as sacred as these trees is imortant to things such as history
1	yo pussy stank  like elleum seum
1	until there is a remedy they should be off bounds unless strictly controlled
1	coz we need air to breath
1	it is a good idea because we ned to help thr nst
1	I hope we can save the Karui even if we can't walk in the forests
1	i personally love th kauri tree so just knowing that there will be forest of it even though i probably wont be able to go in it it still make me feel good
1	the potential ecological impact that losing this tree could impact our way of life
1	we have caused so much damage to our country. we need to contributetomake it right agib
1	protection shall be the first priority
1	we can help the trees by watering them
1	Birds can find home there in the kauri forest.
1	I think its imporant to care for the nature
1	if u have  kauri dieback disease dont go any where with kauri trees because we want the oxygen ad we want to be kind t the trees
1	i like kauri more than i want walking
1	im hopeful that people could stop cutting down trees
1	its ok because i am tryingto save treeees
1	all speices and humans should be resected
1	because i feel bad for nature and the animals that live in the trees and because i wouldnt be allowed to climb trees
1	weshould protect all trees including kauri
1	people can  live under hope not  fear
1	protectig taonga is more important than destroying it
1	i think all nature is important and should be protected over profit and human benifit
1	Honestly people woudn't mind if we were never gonna be able to walk in a kauri forest because most people are attached to electronics
1	All trees are precious in our ecosystem
1	We shoud because it is part of our culture
1	i think if itswhat th planet needs
1	i think that if we can protect themby leavin them we should and hopefully one day we can return to them
1	the protection of native nz is more important than my walking habits
1	Ki t?ku whakaaro he tino m?haro ng? kauri ? me tiaki t?tou i aua.
1	i think that it is important to protect our native species.
1	Trees are precious to use because they give us fresh oxygen. And Kauri is a  type of tree so I think we should save it.
1	i thinkim hopeful that everyone will get along
1	it is for the greate good and to honourthrland and those to com
1	they are apart of nz history
1	it isnore inportant that we protect the animals that  are on this beauitful land then to  walk around on the beautiful areas
1	we need to save our K??r?
1	MY PARTNER RESEARCHES KAURI DIE BACK AND SHE IS AWESOME.IF ANYONE CAN HELP SAVE THEN ITS HER. I AM HOPEFUL
1	I think that if we leave them to heal then there will one day be a time where we can walk these forests again
1	i hope we wont get it
1	the best house at ##### college
1	hopeful for the forest to be back to there    original beauty
1	i think we should save the trees because they give us oxygen
1	we need t protect the forest because without nature we would lose all our beautiful creatres. as well as our beautiful trees and plants etc.
1	Because the future generations deserve the opportunites that weve had
1	therell be more native plnts thst we have been drivibg to excinctoin
1	If we protect existing forest by not allowing visitors there will be a chance of survival and recovery
1	if they grow to their full capacity then that will be better thana short walk
1	i thin k they need to be a round because there really cool
1	because we need to protectthese trees
1	it is more importantthatwe protect te taio nature and papatuanuku. preserve protect
1	i think that is a good idea
1	there are other forests in nz
1	This might help the Kauri trees.
1	wesouldbe protectig our native envirnmentas its uniqe
1	we need to protect our treasure and history.
1	it is greedy for us to demand or expect to be able to do everything we wish to to the detriment of  future generarions. we are lucky to beable to view from a distance
1	we should beacause theylive on our earthto but we should try to keep our frests bootyfull
1	i think that we have done enough damage to our environment and need to take responibility for our surroundings so our children and grand children are abe to enjoy the masters of the forrest
1	because it eaches us all about bck in the dy
1	we need nature. nature doesnt need us.
1	its better for kauri cus they give us oxigun
1	they are unique. people will care if they know why it matters and whatto do
1	while we may not be able to walk through certain reserves like these hopefully they will be just some of many wildlife sanctuaries to enjoy
1	its important to save our biodiversity
1	If it takes humans stop visiting the forests to save Kauri trees then so be it
1	i think  we can do better
1	we dont need to invade every habitat on earth to be able to admire it
1	because hopefully the furtherance of sciences allows us to fix the problem
1	future generaios ill hopefully walkamngst them ad prtectubg our couties anciet history
1	I dont want to lose the forests.
1	i think it will be drip
1	I think restoringa natural habitat is a good  thing for other wildlife.
1	This is a grea tidea except whowill follow the rules?
1	Because we are meant to live in harmony with the land. This gives back for all it gives us.
1	that we should keep them rowing
1	we should do all we can toprotect
1	wemight get to walk in the forestin the future
1	we should protect ourwildlife regardless of whetherthere are gaibsforourselves
1	i think it is a good idea
1	i am hopful iwill do a very loud burp
1	becuse  its fair for them and its fair for us and we get to live so so shold thay
1	If standing on their roots causes them to die perhaps we could plant a few and build viewing platforms around themso that the forests arent compromised.
1	I hope we can and will save trees and nature
1	i hope such magnificent trees grow again like they used to     even if i wont be to see it.
1	i hope that i get my beautiful dog back
1	becase they should be in the habitat
1	i think that it would help wildlife but it would be sad not  being able to go in the bush.
1	kageyamais super hot and he sould marry me!!!!!!!!
1	becuase animals should get treated kindly
1	that the kiwi is gonna die soon so we all need to save the kiwi
1	that this will be good for the forests and creatures.
1	its a good idea for it
1	i thnk that they have been here for a long time so we should take care of them
1	the forest is definately worth saving because it is part of nature antlots of species live in it so why should their home be destroyed?
1	Whats the point in walking through a Kauri forest if they are dying and our mokopuna will never get the opportunity to view them. Thinking otherwise would be selfish
1	in GOD I trust and therefore in Man I hope.
1	mankind is not meant to be destroyed but rather intelligent to save itself just in time
1	its great they are being protected and e just need to reign in our entitlement
1	i thnk that it is good becuase the animals need space.
1	i hope people will help the environment more
1	because it would show that people care about this planet. we need more of that nowadays
1	We have to save our forests or we will destroy our land until we no longer walkit
1	i think that if everyone plays their part then we can do this
1	because with out trees we  cant breathe.
1	i think the trees are beautiful
1	if it means it will keep them safe then i am happy to do that.
1	kauri are taonga. their health reflects the health of the forest and therein the people
1	caus itgves nature an opertunity to grow
1	just until they grow their population then we can walk it again
1	New Zealand is well known for its beautiful native bush and super scenery. We should keep it that way.
1	we should do it to save our future
1	Its important to strive for a balencebetween preserving our ecosystem and being able to experince it
1	protect native forests thywere here before us they should be here when we go
1	saving our kauri forests is considerably more important than walking through them
1	because saving birds can be dangeous experiment.
1	we should care for the kauri trees and not let pests and other things kill them
1	if we have more trees then more opprtunties for deforestation
1	i think f we get to the point where the species is thrvng it will comevisit our forrests abyways
1	i think we need to help they invierment
1	We should plant more native trees in none extincton areas
1	because i  hope that i find my toy car
1	that we need to look after our forest as much as we can so we can look forward to being able to walk in our forests without worryng
1	its a bautiful subject thats it
1	the forests do need protection so maybe access could be moderated
1	for the sake of a diverse ecosystem. humans dont have the right to be in every ecosystem if their presence destroys the ecosystem
1	i think this would be a good thing
1	hopeful that people are recognising and acting to help and improve the enviroment humans have damaged
1	THE NATURAL WORLD SHOULD COME FIRST BEFORE HUMAN COMFORT
1	it is good  for the trees and  bush
1	its more important to save these ancient forests and we can just access small parts of them on boardwalks
1	i think we should protect our natural heritage
1	beacuse peolpe are veng annoying me
1	i am hopeful that we will fix the forrest
1	preventing human interaction allows the kauri tree a chance to thrive in its natural environment
1	protecting our beautiful kauri while we still have them is essential
1	it is a sacrifice our children will thank us for
1	We should protect the Kauri even if that means no more beautiful Kauri forest walks. They're not there just for us to admire!
1	our native land and animals are more importantthan our recreational interests. there are plenty of other forests to explor
1	because then we might save the kauri trees
1	people shouldcre for our environment and protect it even if that  means our gardens wont look so fancy
1	we as humans shoud protect whatwe have instead of killing it
1	it will sav them from destruction
1	the trees need saving my drilla my slime
1	i think that it might work but we may never get to enjoy  Kauri trees
1	becausetgere are ope dibg work on it
1	i think one day we will be able togo back
1	hopeful a treatment for dieback can be funded and researched
1	because i like nature and every tree. i hope someone can look after the kauri so i can see one when i grow up.
1	I think that it is important to save the trees they were here first.AND they help us breathe if we lose them we lose ourselves.
1	i think that the forest is peacefu
1	at least they will be protected
1	nature isnt about us. we cant be selfish about it. even if humans never experience it again animals will .
1	i hope we will be ok dudes ( clap clap clap clap)
1	i think this is hopeful becase itmatters
1	hopeful that we can actully save them.
1	I hink that it is  good idea. It allows the trees to grow and plus there are manymore other nature walks to walk through.
1	AS l?ng ?v?ry?n? d??s th?r? b?t t? st?p th? spr??d
1	it is  ok there are other places to walk
1	we need to protect our beautiful forstery- whatever it takes. humans made these problems in the first place- its only right we pay the price to fix it.
1	if we do not litsin to the goverment k??r? will die
1	thentheywill be healthy and wewill have moreofthem
1	we love to walkin forests but we need to pretect nature
1	that kauri are too important to lose and we should protect them no matter what (also they're very cool)
1	that it would help our air
1	save our rain forest first to insure nature servives and near destinct animals and other species..
1	we should protect our toanga for our future generations
1	because we shoud care about our land. :) and we need to save ournative trees
1	e will be save kuri treees
1	I really want to protect the endangered species of bird because I do not want to lose the memory of them.
1	I think that we should do all we can to protect our K?uri forests even if it means we can't see it's beauty  person
1	that it is good that we can still save our forests
1	Because we should preserve our native trees even if it costs human activity. There are lots of other wals to do
1	we should protect them but we still need to enjoy the trees and enviroment we need to finda way to protect them and beable to enjoy them at the same time
1	its wuorth preserving our  beatiful flora and fauna
1	It is important to protect these ancient trees.
1	we should do every thing we can to eliminate kauri die back  disease
1	hopefully we can save the guogiehouwaowfofwohfw
1	we have to care about other animals
1	its a natonal tresure and we have a responsibility to be its guardian
1	the kauri dieback requires us to treat the plants and stay out of there
1	the kauri deseve a chance to live
1	native like kauri trees are protecters f the whenua and the manu so at all cost we shouldprotect those that protect us
1	i guess coz we gotta protect trees?  idk
1	kauri are worth protecting at all costs
1	that the kauri trees should be protected for future generations
1	we should care more about protecting them than us being able to go on a forest walk
1	I think that it is good that we protect the kauri even if we may not walk near it EVERagain
1	i think that we should help each other and think good thorghts be hopeful and never fight
1	that we should all be hopeful and try to help the trees
1	I Think that even we cant walk in the forest again...we shoud always protect wild life!! and wngsjrescdbmrcfdcmkjbcfjmbfcnksdksnhdjshkndswecant nd always
1	we can overcome this problem with common sence.have clean shoes and pickup your rubbish and take it home with you.
1	we have lost to many native plants and animals all ready
1	Keep people well away from kauri until such time as we know how to ?vaccinate? trees against dieback. If that means keeping people away for generations then so be it. 
1	we sould protect kauri even if we never go to forest anymore
1	I BELIEVE WE SHOULD SACRIFICE OUR OWN PERSONAL DESIRES TO PROTECT OUR PLANET FOR THE FUTURE.
1	preservation of native bush is worth it
1	i think that greatthings come at great costs. if tsmeans we need toremove ourselvesfrom th problem to create a solution then i encourage it.  the earth gves us many things and it is our responsibility as occupants to be advocates forthe health of the environment of the kauri tree
1	because it a treat to see nauture young and old
1	We need to help our native animals and plants at all costs no matter what
1	luv tree lik i luv ford kia kaha mbro $$$ churrrrrr
1	because we need to save the trees no matter what
1	the lives of kauri trees are more important than humans getting t see them in person.
1	others years from now will see them too
1	it is not the only forest in the world just walk in another forest
1	childreans are having so  much fun
1	Proberly becauseif t means to keep kauri alive but weall will  be upset if that happens but I guess what happens is what happens right?
1	that kauri lives are more important than ourviewing pleasure of the forrests. we can visit elsewhere
1	because  we will have more kauri trees
1	as long as the world as it was when i was growing up is still around for future generations im happy and hopeful.
1	it is our fault kauri are endangered we should do our part to help
1	Gonna be hard to stop if humans spread it a
1	I think we need to act beyond what is best for human interest. However  ; without some (restricted) access to kauri... perhaps people not develop the empathy they needto care andthe desiretoprotect thekauri.
1	because the earth wasnt made for us to sightsee it deserves to be preserved
1	it would be better for the birds and environment
1	i think we should protect our tree no matter what so that we have a good envourment
1	The Kauri shouldlive like any other
1	i hope that the kauri will be able to fight iff this disease but i am also sad because kauri is beautiful
1	I think we should still havesome were to walk but still save the birds
1	this is what we need to do to save the kauri and protect the native bush to aotearoa kia kaha
1	kauri were here first. we should look after them
1	i think by protecting the trees they will have a chance to recover
1	WE DONT WANT THE KAURI TO DIE OUT
1	I  think it is a good idea
1	i think it is a good idea because wildlife ca grow with out us disrupting.It should be protected because it is a beautiful tree abd there are lots of other forests to walk in
1	we should protect our native trees at all costs even if it means we cant experince it the same way. it has been a great honour to live along side such mighty giants. they deserve lif
1	i have visitked a kauri tree before and i heard the others had a diseas i say we should   help them
1	I THINK THIS IS A GREAT IDEA
1	we ned to protect kauri over poples right to walk in the forest
1	we should protect our trees  while  we have them
1	IF WE DONTDO THIS THERE WILL BE no native forests to walk in.
1	protecting the native enviorment is important and takes sacrfice
1	walks are fun but we have to protect it i guess
1	we dontwont the trees to die its our erpos
1	Its more important to let it regenarate. We've done enough damage
1	yes we need to protect our heritage
1	our actions can make a positive difference
1	i think it is more important to preserve than to view
1	i think this is a great idea:)
1	i am so glad to be here god bless the people that doesthis
1	It shows people are thinking about the enviroment over their own gain
1	This is required to uphold one of our most famous trees. Do your part for your homeland
1	we need to save our ngahere
1	new zealands nature make new zealand new zealand
1	idk lol preserve it for future generations
1	i think this is a good idea because at lest the trees can grow
1	i would tovisit tane mahuta with my partner ###### one day
1	i think there are plenty of places we can explore and appreciate without endagering our native species
1	then the kauri trees won't get extinct.
1	kauri should come back THEBIGGEST TREES IN NZ
1	that if we can give them a rest then hopefully they can recover
1	i think that we should protect our world because we wont havea good world if we dont
1	i somtims think that evrything is going to be fine
1	we need to think beyond ourselves
1	we need to protect them at any cost
1	we have al to lose ifwe dont take action
1	that kauri dieback does not get all the kuri and the diesease passes so we can still walk in kauri forests
1	SOME BODYONCE TOLD ME ITS URPOWR TODOROKI YOUR BURNED UR FACE AND LEFT.....AND NOW UR GAY
1	there can be vrtual ways o enjoy
1	i think thatproectingnature is oneof the mostimportant things humans can do
1	nature should be protected for balance survival
1	i think itwouldbe great to save our kauri trees evenif we cant walk through
1	it will be good to see the kauri trees living bt i would want walk in a kauri forest again
1	if it needs to happen so be it
1	Becase we shoukd rotext iurnatc trees
1	i know more about the world around me
1	the kauri trees have intrinsic value
1	I think this is a great idea
1	techbnological advances will hopefully enable ourtamarikito ebjoy
1	if we have to never enter thier forest again that would be good and bad. good because they would not have to worry abut humans but badbecause we cant protect them from any of their predators.
1	because i am hoping that our kauri trees get better and that our native trees dont go excint.
1	I wold like to have more kauri
1	kauri are important and beautiful. they should be protected. we've already lost alot
1	i think that it wold be great to give destroying kauri dieback a shot. i like going for walks in the bush and i hope  that we can keep the kauri growing
1	im hopely hor this planet because more and more people are cutting down trees wich is think is really really sad
1	its better for the enviroment and the trees life if we help protect them .
1	we need to protect our native trees. once theyre gone they will never come back.
1	I think that we should protect and preserve our native Kauri because if they go extinct than thatis another lost plant life adwe havelosttoo any already
1	because trees are not for our consumption
1	i feel like this because i want to protect nature
1	I Think we should  be hopeful because then we can get through Covid-19
1	It is good for the enviroment to help save trees and endagered animals
1	to save nature to save our birds
1	its niceto think that one day  people will be able to walk in a kauri forest
1	we can save them because we are a team
1	that all birds deserve a chance
1	its important to protect the trees we have
1	we should be protecting species instead of keeping them for entertainment reasons
1	i want me kids to have a planet
1	I think if the kauri are gone new zealand will regret that we used to have something else unique to show off
1	i love the forst even if i give it away i will all way be part of it
1	Because they are native and some of the largest & long living trees in the world.
1	they are native trees to nz and theres has been to many species and wildlife going extint we need to stop that native birds use those trees
1	we need to save our native species
1	I think that their survival is more important. There are plenty of other places to enjoy.
1	let sick trees regain health and let science catch up on interventions. future generations can enjoy thse forest giants then
1	because new zealands nature would be full of kauri trees again
1	we should be protecting our Native Trees
1	I hope that my parebts will let me get one of the bike things
1	because at camp we were  told to clean ourfeet for nicelycause wewere in a forest
1	well i think that everyone else
1	i thinkprotectibg the wildlife is more impotnt thnus enjoyig  quick walk
1	when Kauri is plentiful again we may walk amongst their grandure once more
1	l think we should help them if we cant walk in it.
1	i feel hopeful because its good care about our wourld island! So im feeling really hopeful to care for our world
1	this is the dest solution t give kauri the bestchance to recover. I' m hopefulbecuaseit may mean one daywe can walk amoungst them again.
1	I think a cure and or better treatment will be found to protect and conserve our kauri forests. One day we will be able towalkamong these forest giants again!
1	Ithibk it would be a great chance to help the kauri tree and start caring for the planet.
1	A place with kauri trees will be a nicer place  for us to live in.
1	i think that it is a good idea
1	its a great idea and it will take of
1	There are other ways to experience them...
1	I want future generations to be able to see kauri trees so if it means that we can not walk in a kauri forest I think that is fine. I am hopeful that this could work.
1	i thbk it is a realy good idea
1	i am lightly sad that we wont be able to walk in kauri but i am hopeful for the outcome for us and our planet
1	respect the land. we haveno rght to do further damage.
1	humans need torealisewebelog to the earth. not the other wat around.
1	conservation of native species is essential to preserving our culture and history
1	fhffdscxvxxcxbxvcvcxvxgwcxvvvxvv h vv  v       vcvvxcxvcvxvvcbcvbvvvvbcchgbfcvfvghgfcgvccngggfgffhhhhgvhjng bvfdnxgxigfzux gryxhxxggtythytbiuhhyto
1	i love new zealand trees and want to protect them
1	i think the forest needs to be protected more than we need to walk in it
1	we are literally in control of whether the species survive- why leave the ecology of our natives up to chance?
1	so  they can live and not die.
1	we might be able to save kauri if we all band together to protct it
1	we should save the remaining trees for the future of the species.
1	this is a good thing becaus we cab keep kauri fo ever
1	echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo echo
1	planet does not belong to only people. people have plenty other places to work.
1	that we can save the forest
1	i think that is a great idea i try my hardest to look afterour world and i think this would be a greatidea to get everyone to try and look after the world
1	because we hould reserve them at any costs     even  ifwe have to stop seeing them.
1	That this might give people an inspiration to actually think about the trees.
1	i think its a good idea we need to protect kauri and not do any harm
1	in newzelandnatcher is importint for birds and air and th? mm?r? ?nd st?ff
1	i think that it isn't ok for us to walk around in the forsts killing plants when the plants were here before us and they haven't done any thing bad to us
1	because they are really nice and you should always care bout them
1	WE MUST PRESERVE THE PAST FOR OUR FUTURE
1	if we dont save trees  we wont have clean oxegyn
1	we should take care of our amazing trees that give us oxygen and help our birds for a home...now. our trees are...DYING?
1	we should preserve what is given to the land and us
1	I think hopeful because that means everyone can look at them but not touch them.
1	we should protect our kauri like how we protect our people
1	we should keep our native trees alive
1	i'm hopeful because i like kauri
1	we need to preserve our environmen. that waytese trees will be aroub for future generations and be beneficl to theenvionment andecosystems.
1	Protecting our trees is a awesome idea but I love walking in our lovely kauri forests. I hope though that we can help and even save the kauri and some of the speices living near and in the trees.
1	if   it  means we can protect our native trees then it is worth looking after. we wont have to pay for air
1	preserve what we have before it is too late
1	ki au nei ahakoa te aha me tiakina tatou i te taiao ina ra he oranga kee i roto i nga rakau hei tautaawhi ki te hunga e noho ana i runga i to tatou whaea a papatuanuku
1	because we need to live in somones house yay
1	i hope we can mae a chage
1	unless someone cares a whole lot: it will never get better. - DR SEUSS
1	because the answer is in the soil
1	i think we shold be able too
1	Becaus we can then leave the legacy for our mokopuna who will come.
1	Because the forests are not ours anyway
1	i think that this is so cool
1	because i think we should protect nature
1	By protecting them in our generation maybe the next will get the chance
1	Hopeful tht people wll do the rght thing
1	kauri area great taonga we need o protect
1	we are now at least tring to understand the risks and find ways to prevent its damage. before we did not know how fragile they were
1	its a difficult but important choice
1	whatever we have to do we have to do it
1	i think that we should look after all of the nature
1	I thibk that we need to protect forests  and our climate the same way we would protect or kiddywinkies. SAVE THE PLANET!!!!!!!!!!! we really need to come togtherand work together to help.  REDUCE REUSE AND RECYCLE
1	I like this because humans are spreading predator desises
1	i think every tree needs protetchon
1	saving native trees will make NZ beautiful.
1	protection at all costs even if dontgetto walk  in forest
1	im hopeful bcause kaui trees are important and if we do more birdsand trees will spread
1	we should get used to be getting involved with other sorts of natrue .
1	we are becoming more and more aware
1	my name is #### and i like trees
1	we should respect our native forets and preserve them for further generations
1	because it might save  the invirmint
1	i think its more important then walking in the bush
1	i think we should protect our forest even if we can not see it
1	It wouldbe cool to have lots of kauri trees around.
1	we are visitors on ths panet only
1	Because it means that future generrations can walk in the forest
1	i think thats a great idea
1	i think kauri are pecial and we need to do our part to protect it. the earth is our home we should helpit
1	We need to protect our lovely New Zealand.
1	We need to look after our native trees even if this means giving up something
1	Wh?t w? ?r? d??ng ?s gr??t
1	I think that its pivotal to save the native trees for future generations. Even if we'll never them
1	i hope that we can save the kauri because it is part of the ecosystem.
1	thatthese trees need to be pretecded even if it means we can not see rhem
1	because u can  still see them from a distance and if we dont protect them then we wont see them anyway
1	at least we will be keepig them safe
1	THE SKRELLYS ARE THE BEST (excluding ######)
1	its never too late to say sorry
1	i would rather help them rather than walk ith them to get a picture for instagram or something
1	it will be a big change but maybe for the better
1	tits important to protect NZs native bush. Im hopeful for the future if we protect these areas as then with the return of native plants we could see them recover and then spreadout .Returning the beauty of these native bush areas for future genurations.
1	have you seen an alien please
1	I love native plants and animals and want to protect them
1	Because we need to  look after our native forests
1	Because we need to look after our native forests.
1	because it would be sad to lose such amazing trees forever
1	we cannot ignore this problem any longer therefore intervention and rules to help protect need to be enforced for our future of these great forests.
1	part of the heritage of NZ f?r?sts
1	its an attempt to save kauri
1	i think that this would a great
1	i  will play violin very well. like a super star.
1	protection is needed. but may not be  enough
1	we need trees to survive and they are natural habitat
1	trees are more importent then peope
1	becase we are doig smen good
1	I hope that doing thisworks becuse i like forests
1	Even if we cannot see the kauri trees it will still be better to protect them
1	have to save the treebecause  otherwise sad for trees
1	we shoukd help te bsturewhenwe are rubbibg iut
1	I WOULD LOVE MY CHILDREN TO EXPERIENCE TOUCHING KAURI. I am hopefulthat one day all New Zealanders can experience these amazing TREES that we have here
1	we haveto make sacrifices to protect the integrity of our natural environment
1	to save our heritage for future generations and biodiversity
1	think thst i ould b a god itea bcase  wabt to sav animals and we wont die for not beibg able to wak bt the animals will die
1	its more inoprtant we preserve our taonga species until they are strong enough to share their spaces with us
1	becase the kauri forest is beautiful andi would really miss walking it
1	i am hopefull because this means nature can be restored to its natural state
1	if we recognise the threat we pose and really want to avert it we can.  i just hope enough of us do
1	The natural ecosystem should be protected regardless of how we humans experience it. The world is bigger than us.
1	we need trees to help us grow fruits and veges and oxygen thankyou for taking good care of all of our trees
1	WITHOUGHT IT NEW ZEALAND ISLIKE LOOSIBG ON OF THERE PEOPLE WE SHOULD PROTECT IT AND KEEP IT SAFE
1	it is better for us to preserve kauri forests so that  future generations can experience it
1	I think Iwill help protect allthe animals and not cut down any more trees and I will not pilut
1	some people might disoey the rules so yeah
1	that we hould care for  our wildlife
1	Where there is love... there is life
1	that it is important topreserve native trees
1	i think we shouldprotect the kauri evn if we cant walk in a kauri forest again because itis good to save nature!!
1	native wildlife needs to be protected.
1	We should protect kauri trees becaus they are an awesome tree and take so long to grow. We did this so we have to fix it.
1	life is cool. i love bouncy balls and lollipops
1	If it is the only way to save them I am in
1	becasue we need to protect them asthey are precious tous
1	Humans should not come before everything else. We shouldprotet these precious species
1	I think our planet should be protected for ever. TO BE SAFE.
1	i feel sad to not be able to see them but hopeful and happy the ywill be able to flourish
1	New Zealand is workighardt save the Kauri trees by closing down some bush walks
1	The biosphere is here for longer than humans
1	we dont need to walk in thier foersts. leave the kauri in peace
1	nz seems to have a great care for its historyand its enviroment. wih education and respect anything is possible
1	becaus here used for there gum and its nkt faie
1	our native trees are worth caring about
1	that ##### is  outof my life
1	kauri die back is savarely killing our kauri forests i am hopeful that we find a solution before we savarely need a cure
1	i want to protect kauri trees because they ae special to New Zealand
1	becasebecause it i a native tree to our country
1	we need to prtect them but they are still a butiful tree to see
1	a treasure that needs our protection
1	sossy need to be grilled on bbq not stoves
1	we should do whatever is needed!
1	we need to protect the future and change the past ways now
1	I think its important to do this.
1	i think that we are destroying the trees
1	because one day ny great grand children will be able to see more than just a couple of large trees
1	i think every animal needs a chanc e to be aliv
1	The trees are more important than our recreation.
1	because we should protect the enviroment as without it we will die so we need to keep it safe
1	its good to protect native things
1	that if we all do it we can do it
1	it would be good to try save kauri.
1	we should do everything we can to letfuture generations enjoy these amazing trees too!
1	I think it wouldbe awsome if kauri didnt die back but it would be sad to never walk in a kauri forest again
1	we can work together to solve the problem
1	Humans have wrecked the earth so we have to sacrifice now to fix the damage
1	then trees can be aroun for other people to enjoy and we feel like kaitiaki.
1	we must protect no mater the inconvie
1	It would be good to have them back
1	WE ARE THE CAUSE FOR THE EXTINCTION OF MANY SPECIES THEREFORE WE SHOULD LEARN AND GROW FROM OUR MISTAKES SO THAT THE WORLD WE LIVE IS SAFE AND BETTER
1	the earth can recover if we're willing tohelp it
1	start planting hemp stop using cotton and wood for clothing fabrics and construction. hemp brings water back and doesnt waste the soil. be smart and stop wih your white english imperialist tabus new zealand
1	that we shuld shut it off because if im being honest peoplecant stand not to pick the betiful plant
1	biodiversity protection shouldtake precedence over human desires to get up close to nature. especially if our actions destroy the very thing we want to get close to.
1	BECAUSE  WE  NEED TO LOVE AND PROTECT THE TREES!!
1	we should protect our kauri at all costs
1	we should walk in forests without kauri and other native trees and walk in forests with otherones instead
1	because then maybe the trees will thrive
1	nz's nature is important to everyone.
1	so my grandchildren will be able to oneday have their grandchildren experiencin g the forest beauty
1	Forests and ecosystems should be protected regardless of their ability to produce utlity for humanity
1	all sacrfices creates momens for reflection. The possibility of not ever getting the chance to walk through a kauri frest again should create the opportunity to create more ways to encourage the nation to protect our natural elements our taonga.
1	i think this would be a great idea. act now for the future!
1	i am hopeful because if we dont get to walk in a kauriforestit will help and maybe on day we will gat to walk in a kauri forest again
1	if we want to protect kauri for the future we may need to make a sacrifice
1	Hopefully the kauri will grow back and get protection for generations to come.
1	we shoule stop talking about his and start doing. time is not on out side. nature is so important. we need to learn to love....
1	i think its important to save the forest and we leave areas to be wild withoutpeople
1	native trees are importabt to our culture and maintainng a healthy ecosystem
1	WE CAN SEE THEM FROM A DISTANCE ANYWAY
1	we shoud look after te tai ao
1	we have lobg since discarted our tikanga of giving back to the land.we gotta bring it back
1	that ############# is a peice of shit
1	It is what is right for the betterment of the native land and ancestors
1	we need to put the planet ahead of profit
1	people are selfish and wont lsiten but i am hopeful for it
1	the trees means alot to our country and if it means we cant look at them then to bad
1	i think its giid that we are diing changes
1	we should protect them to the best of our ability
1	im hopeful trees will not become carnivores
1	It is important for us to know that we cant live without bushes
1	i think we really have to protect kauri cause they dont live anywhere esle but NZ.
1	it is inportant to preserve native species and maintain the rich biodiversityin our country
1	we should try help evrything we have.
1	i think  this is  really cool because so people can learn differentthings about ourculture
1	Im hopeful because ik we xan do it and i cant spell
1	We need torepair whatwe have broken
1	i think if we all work together we will make it happen
1	to help the froretno matter what.
1	PAIGE loves looking after the Kauri
1	decause we can make more merores dut tat mese we cant go for wlaks never again
1	conservation should be priority but we also need to learn how to live in harmony and respect the living world
1	because they will be safe and even if it means we cant  do something it will still be worth it and i dont lik walking
1	i think haleping ppl is a good thing
1	kauri are special and they need space to grow. this space should be safe.
1	i like to play in trees
1	That Kauri trees should be protected and after many years we will be able to walk in them again as the seeds would have spread and grown.
1	i love these things i vant $$$$$$$$$$$$
1	because we don't have a place like this b the PHILIPPINES
1	i want to protect the forest but let people walk in it under strict conditions
1	optimism is the most important part of conservation
1	if we touch the trees to much they might die
1	That would be a great way to save nature
1	im so hopful that my nana is sill a live
1	because we need to protect the natives even if itmeans well have to not see them which is sad but good
1	It would be nice to help save the trees
1	mayb well save the kauri forests for future generations
1	we need to learn to respect ourenvironment
1	kauri need  to thrive on their own
1	kauri trees were there first. so we dont have the right to erase them
1	if it means saveing nature i'm in
1	that this is a cool musem
1	because our trees are more important than our entertainment.And this is the best way to keep them safe.
1	looking after nature is helpful!!!! we been growing a plant last week!
1	i hope we can protect them so the future generation can see them and experience the beautiful scenery.
1	i feel hopefull beacuse its a new year
1	once they're gone they won't  come back
1	so that they can live in peace without humans dsturbing them
1	we must help the trees. they have been here before us and SHOULD be here after us.    I want to be able to see kauri tree as an adult.    we need to worck together to save these trees and keep theworld a green place.  or you could not listen to a ## year old.
1	i am hopeful because kauri trees will live again
1	Even if there is concequences it will be nice to protect nature.
1	I dont feel  excited because Ilike bushwalks and im not angry worried or dont care si I chose hopeful
1	we need tomake sure our birds have a place to live
1	that we can prevent these giants from being lost. thats hopeful
1	because  humans are bigist population by ZONIC
1	I hope all the animals get there homes back and we don't cut down any more trees and we don't polute rubbish into the sea and take care of all the animals ans don'make them go excit.
1	because we want lots of trees to breath
1	becausethey are inportant part of new zealand
1	Why not! Little sacrifice save the spiecies! Worth it!
1	i feel sad about the peope who cant look after their land
1	even if we cant walk there again its good to protect
1	Kauri are an important part of our ecology and natural heritage. We should take whatever measures needed to preserve plant and animal diversity.
1	I thinkits ok as long as its to save the tree
1	THIS IS A VERY GOOD IDEA.
1	I THINK BECAUSE WE ALL HAV TO HELP IT AND I REALLY WANT TO HELP IT AND I KNOW HOW TO DO ITBECAUSE I WITH MY DAD DO THE PLANTING IN OUR BALKONY
1	i hope we can find better ways to save nz climate
1	love to seeit when i get old
1	they need to regrow they keep us alive
1	we should because if we dont they will be extinct
1	hopeful is something you injoy doing in your own life you chose what hopeful is
1	We need to protect tane mahuta and tangaroa te whenua for our mokopuna and aotearoa.
1	we can have a hugeimpact over a relatively short amount of time and we must do what we can
1	I think well be more successful if were hopeful.
1	that we sould  protect   kauri because it helps our natrul habitat
1	i think we will be able to save Kauri by giving more education about them more to the community.
1	good because then wes ave trees
1	its bettertokeep taonga for the long term. biodiversity is important.
1	i thenk that theings shod be protektid.               because nacher shod be inporint.                  and safe for inviromint.                                        thank you.
1	i hope for a better future for all the humans and animals in our planet. i think that we can try to stop pollution like dumping rubbish in the sea. stop the spread of green house gases and stop cutting down the animals natural habitats. we should respect the planet.
1	hopefully our tipunga will still be abe towalk in the magicforrests
1	EVEN IF IT MEANS WE CANT WALK IN THE FORESTS IT WILL BE BETTER FOR NATURE AND NATURES WISHESCOME FIRST
1	hello its a gooooooooood idea .
1	so we can bring back our native birds
1	that this is a great idea. If we protect them now maybe the next generation will be able to walk in those forests again.
1	i hope that people will respect our kauri forests because nature is more important than a nice walk
1	i  am hopefull ppl will smart now
1	if it means protecting sonething important then we as humans should learn to comprimise
1	i think that we should take care of our environment by leaing our forest to do its work .
1	because kauri is a native tree and i think thats important
1	itwould be sad to never walk in a kauri forest again
1	i feel hopeful for the future of our kauri as we should protect all of our native animals
1	I think that the protection of ou native flora and fauna should be top priority.
1	Care for our taiao shouldbe top priority. We are kaitiaki here and we need to walk the talk.
1	we need to preserve the envirmentwe have now.
1	that all animals should be alould to live in places without humans around
1	It is important to protect trees as they offset our carbon footprint and provide a habitat for native birds
1	the natral word is more importat than human whims
1	i think it great to have native trees still and i would lik tehem surviving
1	TTWHAT I TRULY BELIEVE IS THAT PRESERVATION IS IMPORTANT AND SACRED ENOUGH TO UPLIFT THE ENRICHMENT THAT IS IMPORTANT TO THE KAURI TREE. CAPITALISM IS AT FAULT HERE AND I WISH THAT WE AS T?NGAT? WH?NUA REMAIN TRUANT AND THAT COLONIALISM WASNT ALWAYS THE SUSTAINABLE OUTCOME. NEVER
1	i have  never seen a kauri
1	we need to look after our environment carefully
1	KAURI trees are special to me because i planted one.
1	we need to look after what we have or we.ll end up with nothing
1	id rather they survive even if we cant then enjoy them up close
1	it has hope for the future
1	Im hopeful  that my grandchildren will one day be able to have the pleasure of walking though the forest in their life time
1	we need to save the trees no matter what
1	i ### ##### love kauri trees therefor they shall exist
1	some things are more important than our own enjoyment
1	.that it is good to look after the environment
1	we would be sad if we lost some native trees
1	i think we should be happy that we still have those trees couse lots of birds love this tree:)
1	if everybody  tries; we can protect the trees
1	we really need to take care of our nature and wildlife within
1	cause i am cancunion and i know everything
1	OUR NATURE NEEDS TO BE PRESERVED FOR THE NEXT   GENERATION TO SEE ITS BEAUTY
1	that it may be necessary to protrct kauri. I would rather see them from afar than them being extinct.
1	that tgere should be oter methods not judt this
1	because ihope thatno one will enter the frest
1	will be great if we can
1	because we can save the trees
1	if we protect it then we may be able to walk there again in the future
1	we havean idea of  whatmight work
1	I HOPE THAT KAURITREES WILL STILL BE HERE WHEN I   HAVE CHILDREN
1	we need to protect the trees
1	I thinkwe should protect the tree. To help the environment.
1	we should protect our forrest for the future generations
1	we have messed up nature so much already. we should take any step necessary to protect it if we can. evenif i means not stepping somewhere
1	because we  have to look  after the kauri
1	it will be good for the enviroment
1	i think it is great that we do not go into the kauri forest because we can ive them there peace
1	we can save Kauri if we care
1	we should save native animals plants and habitats
1	I think native birds like kauri trees
1	because protecting the forest is important
1	because if your helpful you'll help the world survive
1	it simport to protect natur eand letgo ofthe go
1	Protection of the land is more important than human desires. People come and go but the forests need to last forever.
1	we humans can reverse some of the damage we are csusing
1	it will help lots including with global warming plus we need to be kaitiakitanga
1	i think our birds and trees are special to new zealand. :)
1	it would benefit nz and its wildlife
1	so the environment be a better place
1	Humans should leave what they do not understand. Humans should not attend where they are not needed
1	i would likemygrand childrenschildrentosee themighty kauri
1	tress are pretty lit and help us breathe
1	we are willingto lok at all options
1	i think that if everyone plays their part and looks after new zealands enviroment we will save the kauri.
1	because the onlyreason were alive is because of our trees
1	I think thats a nice idea.
2	l just don' t care baby we love you
2	its no good  having treesifwe cant enjoy them.
2	i belive the planetwill die regardless of what actions we take. as a result of ourgreed the planet will die and that is just how it goes with humans. we are greedy.
2	i think that the world needs to burn because there are too many chickens on it
2	I DONT CARE BECAUSE I REALLY DONT MIND BUT I RESPECT THE OTHER OPPINIONS
2	it would be goodfor us to protectthem but it does not really affect me
2	i think everybody is very happ
2	i mean like who even cares?  its just some trees! cutthem down for all i care
2	sonething yiet yiet yiet yiet yiet yiet
2	bc its bad to walk and walking is bad
2	i dont know what it is
2	i think i am a poop
2	i am not caring for persoal reasons......
2	dont care becausebein the now not then.
2	i don even know what this is?
2	that is very good  and i choosedont care cause i dont like walking
2	what is the point of protecting something if you never get to enjoy it
2	i dont understand because my vocab is low get it
2	this is the dumbest thing ever i want them to die
2	we should take care of the forest but we dont need to experience it.
2	xsxwcrfc fr c ftgv gtv vtg g vvgtvg g vg
2	i want a dirvorce with my wife.
2	that im not a good guy
2	Kauri tree can be planted else where and we have can clean our shoe anyway to minimise damage ad to experience what nz has to offer
2	only trees. we need more firewood
2	get noob get noob gt noob
2	I enjoy the succulent taste of moist  hotcakes.
2	theres to much people making silly answers
2	i like big black cock in my ass
2	well then do it but we wont be able to see the birds.
2	enough with making us moving towards livng n stone age
2	sorry ##### that you are a boy.
2	jjjjsjlskafhkskgesjknhfjavjsvchwcsjqhdhdhjskshhachduiasudghdosshhwshhdakchwegyuiudhuohquuwwurahkhkcvckkhevw hksdkhakhe hakjk k hg gg ff  f  jg k hgdhkskhfefkahgwkakhdhwkwkakjhskhskjhwihjfvkjkhkwkwkkaekksjaejakjakkkekehuuwurchcjxkslkdjshhchdhzsiwwjwhuffksjsjsjshdhheiwwwjfhfhcfjgnf
2	i dont know anything about kauri trees.
2	my dadhad to go and getthe milk
2	i am more worried about other things like my jokes get it?
2	i have no care for plants
2	the earth is flat and you should electme for face hump
2	i wish people could walk in it
2	it is lame i do not care
2	cos f u c k kauri
2	i like eating gay potatos  in theshower
2	#### #### poo  in his pants
2	i honestly cannot be fracked rn g
2	scared and worried about our future
2	I dont always go to nz zoos
2	they should just die whats the pint
2	i dont even know what this is
2	I wouldnt care if they stopped us from going because then it would help protect birds and the tree I also think that only Doc should be allowed
2	hoi i love my puppy Ralph he is so cute
2	fat poopoo stinky pig that is fiin d
2	its  pointless protecting something we cant walk in
2	my dad went to the dairy to get melk and   never came back
2	i dont really give a shit
2	like the ed sheran song. i dont care
2	does not matter if we carnt go hikeing
2	im a fatty so id  on  mind
2	i do not know what they are
2	i dont an to be here
2	i like to walk in bush but want enviroment safe
2	because i dont care and i like  strawberries
2	tht we should all get pets
2	i dont think about trees really
2	i think that warter is groos
2	i just hope for the best
2	you will never walk alone       liverpool 2020/2021
2	i care about more important stuff like trees get it
2	we NEED to look after our forests
2	theese are ntvery cool to me ;(
2	there is nothing to worry about
2	i dont realy do forest walks anyway. also it means i wont die
2	#### ##### killed me no.w i get revenge  f@#$
2	we should just save the whales
2	I dont have  to worry about this si i dont eally care
2	i just dont care at all
2	i think you should shut up
2	i have made a severe and continuous lapse in my judgement and i dont expect tobe forgiven. i am simply hereto apologise
2	why theres not that much poulution
2	This is irrelivant to my life
2	i think i dont care about this
2	I  AM NOT BOTHERED BY THIS
2	meh ima possom and i love destrying theh trees -_-
2	echo is echoing in an echo
2	i am sooooooo soooo sad to see all these dead animals around nz...
2	i am not  happy  but but poo
2	sawaresenai kimi wa shoujo na no
2	i thinkyoushould follow @####### on instagram
2	##### can you be nice to me it hurt when you smaked me im sorry
2	i dont care because i only like kiwis
2	because #### is a giant willy
2	i dont go in them anyways
2	COVID S GREAT I LET ME  MUM FUCK  ME TUM
2	i dont know much about this so i dont relly care
2	i dont know what kauri is
2	i  think trees are trees. it shouldent matter
2	i am the glibgloglobalab i love books and this basement is a true tresure trove
2	i thinki am a tree as my arms are long ####### ########
2	coz like i live in auckland and were hare on holiday so ya we probably wonta be visiting here soon if we ever come back but ya i'm shore the people wholive here will love it!
2	###### pooped his pants by ####
2	that this is a very weird place
2	as long as we protect tree i dont care ifwe have to stay away from the tree
2	does not really interest me but free cheeseburgers are nuce and plump
2	because ###### ####### teaches to not care
2	bears look like ###### because she is a bear
2	idobt know where this forset isso its normal for me not t care
2	whats the point of saving something if you dont get to see it
2	i dont really know much about them so i dont care
2	we have other good stuff and walking makes me tired
2	the hub is where its at
2	becase i cracked at fortnite my guy
2	i do notlike going on walks :P
2	ya ne znayi chto takoe "kauri"
2	i think scientests can do what they want as long as its ethical safe and helpful slash will beneft the word so i dobt care what they do because ts god
2	because we should take care of peoples feelings
2	i dont know much about kauri buti do know all animals deserve to liveno bird should getkilled because of us i have nver walked in a kauriforest but i can imagine its beautiful
2	i dont live near forests witch have kauri.
2	i like the hub my guy
2	all trees are good for firewood
2	you should care for trees protect them
2	i  bhjnkmjeqrwtreew ewe we ionie               cf      h         n         n        n         nn         n      '??((:/)((+-&1234&756789#$&&--&___/+(@                  +(                       +(+(+((+((+ (((((((  777777
2	I do not really care because there are always other places I can walk.
2	i never go in forests anyway
2	because life is just an endless cycle of repeating things over and over until u die and life is depressing
2	i dont care that much but i will respect the idea
2	because i dont care and im cute and
2	##### is a b....h  sexy #####
2	The trees are kida free ash anyways
2	we shoud destroy the forests  now!!!!!!!!!!!
2	cause we are all going to go one day so  it donst matter
2	because we would still hav our sacred forest
2	i wish me wife would let me fish :(
2	because TANE MAHUTA IS A POO AND ABITCH
2	if we cant see or walk in it then does it exist
2	everythbg should die bc im mean... ########## ##### ###### ######
2	im a horny boi and i love tits
2	Becase the bible says thattheearth ill not die cause f no kauri trees so i dont care
2	because i dint kbwwhat im doing i like females not males i a staright not wiggly thetree as nagestic as a condom easy to eark
2	I'm not really in to nature stuff and i have never really been in to kauri trees
2	i think that it doesnt affect me at all so yea idc
2	after trump the worldis screwed anyway
2	that nature will all die no matter what
2	more money needed for research as we dont know what causes it
2	as long as the trees still exist
2	we should trytofind a way to be able to walk in kauri forests abd save the trees
2	hi where is da potty and do you poo
2	What is the piontin looking afterthe Kauri
2	becase i didnt read the question properly so i dont know what i did
2	i do not care because i have never walked in it
2	its because  your boring #i dont care
2	I dont live here and im not a fan of forests as long as its better for the enviorment :)
2	i am not  happy i am  to poocome
2	because i dont care if  enyone judges me
2	this is a nice house thank you
2	i think that kauri are very important birds just like allbirds and we should protect any birds
2	it isnt as talked about so therefore dont really know how to feel
2	i dntcare cut down alll trees
2	there are other beautiful paces to hike but i do wonder if there are other ways to help the kauri trees.
2	hi i am not happy to see you
2	we  want to save our trees
2	i think i need take a fat poo poo
2	i am worried beccause a monster is in  my house
2	dont know dont care cuz stuffffffffffff
2	you think youre fuckin funny well youre not shut yourmouth and die
2	because ther are too many other trees in nz
2	sorry butt i dont understand itge it?
2	ihate the idea. i want towalk in kauri forests
2	ithink im a horny pice of fuck
2	I have already walked it before
2	Seems like a you problem not a me problem
2	i dont care about nothing essay baa #ESSAY BAA#$$$LOL
2	I think i dont care because i have already walked  one
2	i dont really mind either way
2	i dont carethat ###### is a poo
2	we should protxrxt th tres but be ablto walk in the fores.
2	that its not really of my concern
2	im not really into the srt of stuff.
2	thatit is hard to decide so i dont care
2	i dontknow what the idea is
2	i canno longer spy on my ex wife in the forest :(
2	The Chinese are slowly taking over NZ and use this country for its resources.  They care nothig for well intentioned naive conservation efforts. The only way to save nature is by keeping the Chinese and their money out of this country. Theyll plunder rape and destroy this land.
2	i think tht i should leave it to the pepole who are good at it
2	i dont care if cooper dies
2	because people need  excerise  to go for a walk or they will get fat but we should be careful where we walk like different walks like mount victoria
2	as long as everyone is happy
2	trees are in the way and just cuse issues
2	do what u gotta do #leshgo
2	it is not really my buissness
2	fart is good for you. you shold take good wiffs of it daily
2	I really don't gve a shit
2	you are a dig poo  dutt
2	im an amareican therefore dont care
2	that people  that dont care have are resson and they should not be imbarassed to tell a trusted adult or someone they can trust
2	kaore aui paku m?hio ki te kaupapa nei
3	all things mamals animals and humans go throungwhoknows and how do you know for sure
3	i dont trust people to do the right thing
3	we want to experience our forests
3	because i only went to a forest once  when i was 5 and im 16
3	I don't know if that's the best way to care for them
3	because you never know wats gonna happen in the future so yeah keep the earth safe
3	itis a bad disize like covid19 so imwroord
3	it is sadthat it might not be around soon
3	its sad whatv we have done to our beautiful planet
3	we should  look after our trees
3	we can learn so much from being in nature
3	not enough information to make an informed decision.
3	the experience of being in a forest shouldntoutway the survval of a species
3	wont be able to see one touch one or smell one
3	How can we help protect the kauri forests better...people want to learn
3	because l we can fart on my firend yige
3	to manypeople uninterestedabout our environment we live in
3	it is very sad for the Kari trees
3	because then you cabt experiebce it
3	what is the point  if you neve pyhsically get to see the kauri. there must be a solution for the kauri and humans to both live in harmony
3	whatever needs to happen to save the kauri should happen!
3	would benice to walk amongst thekauri understrck conditions. even if limited to certain areas. but if kauri were in real trouble then agree sacrificeswill need to be made
3	Its ok to be hopeful but we need  action and hope will not solve but divert the problem to another individual.
3	i want to walk in the forest
3	t?ne mahuta is a very important figure in our culture and i think the m?ori comunity and greater aotearoa would hurt from his loss. As young m?ori it hurts that i may never meet him.
3	we have 60 kauri on our propertyin auckland some are already dying due to die back we feel helpless to stop this disease killing our trees
3	we need to protect special plants
3	that these trees should be left to their natural environment
3	Although we shoud protectour kauris it would be sad to never walk in a kauri forest again
3	most people are selfish  but  its not about me its about all those gone before me and future generations coming after me
3	HELP MY TREES ALREADY DON'T KEEP ME WAITING  - silently yells at em humans that dont care -
3	I THINK ITS A GOOD IDEA BU I STILL WONT TO BE ABLE TO SEE THETREES
3	they are tapu. first citizens of this land.
3	forests are places to be enjoyed.  dont like the idea of not havnbg acces
3	I'm worried that future generations will not be able to connect and experience our beautiful forests
3	it would be sad if we couldnt go somewhere again.
3	its difficult to change human behaviour.  how do we convince all people that they need to respect kauri if they want to walk where they believe theyhave a right to be.
3	its an asset that people need to experience
3	kauri are such a majestc tree . if they are there thn peopl should have the oppporunity to see them
3	kauris are beautiful trees that should be preserved
3	because i like kauri trees and i like to learn about them
3	it would be devastating if the kauri were to die out but it is also devastating to think about never walking  in a kauri forest again
3	if peope are concious theywill be more caareful
3	because nz and the rest of our world is dieing
3	becaue I like nature and we should look afer it.
3	this is a very important issue but i am more concerned with fishing as my income is dependent on it. now that i think about it i should divorce my wife. she stops me from fishing sometimes
3	that we should try reduce global arming by plasticreduce and a few sanitary things WASH YOURE HANDS!
3	how did we get to this situation? What are we going to do to protect our KAURI?
3	The forest an important part our cultrue but we still need to be able to see it
3	i hope we can save them in time
3	we shoud have some part of the forest that has themost kauri and keepsome for sicnte and resarchers
3	creative commons can modify me comment. so how is this helpful for data collection?
3	i am worried because some of it is scary and do not like scary things.
3	sad because wont beable to walk in them
3	i thnk we should prtect getrees
3	NOT ENTIRELY SURE THAT HUMANS ARE THE ONLY SPREADER OF KAURI DIEBACK... WORRRED FOR THE FUTURE OF THE TREE... BUT ALSO WORRIED THAT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ENJOY OUR NATIVE BUSH WHILE WE STILL CAN.
3	WE NEED TO LERN THE TRUTH
3	I am worried that we still might not be able to stop the destruction. We as a species are too far gone and have become too careless to care. There's an Urgent need of educating our societies in large to stop the destruction.
3	pedespite some action beibg made against it too little people are aware of the problem and to little effort is made tospread awerness especielly in the news where its constantly overshadowed by other pressing problems
3	we should protect and enjoy native so im worried we wont be able to do both
3	the dairy industry alot to answer for
3	miss walking in a kauri forest but i want to protect them
3	its good that you want to protect kauri. it is a bit sad and worrying that it might make people never be able to walk in a kuri forest again.
3	ahhh  i need to draw penis
3	sub to my youtube chanal craigcaesar no spaces
3	these trees are presius to us that is what makes newzealand special. And these trees are beutiful and smell amazing.
3	i think humans arehurting our beloved papatuanuku-andthisis a problem we MUST stop
3	while it is important to save these magnificent trees it will be sad not to be able to walk through the forests and experience their awesomeness.
3	it is important to see what happen. avoid to watch lead loosing people's attention
3	It is sad to think that humans have made it so bad that we can no longer walk through the forest.
3	thy will de ff which is sad
3	cause they are scared like tayla pretorius in the earkquake
3	all them cody trees gonna go
3	its sad for the trees and the hunans.
3	worried about the damage we are doing
3	kauri is older than our ancestors and carries history and stories. if they die part of our history dies too. save our trees to save our future.
3	we cant resist walkng in thefores andwe need to walk in the forest to connect to it. then thekauri will die. maybetheywill anyway . worrying
3	i am worried becusei dont want ournative trees to die. i think thatcweneed to respecthe trees as much as we respec each othe.
3	I think this is a good idea but some peaple love walking in kauri forests and they might not like this. also they might keep walking in kauri forests anyways. i would have loved this idea if it werent for that small flaw. as i said before i love this idea!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!:)
3	We shoud always protect our Ka?ri becausethey are half of what New Zealand is.
3	I  think its bad for the nature. We need to look after our trees so we can breathe
3	difficult options ahead either way. always preservation
3	because i want the trees tobe protected but i want to enjoy them as well
3	we wont see the kauri and they might die before  we see them
3	becuse we cant go for walks intge bush and no longer can see animals
3	because i like walking like everywere
3	hola uso me no gusta un te papa
3	sparkys need to save the world one ligh at a time
3	needs to happen to protect kauri
3	needs to be a way for the public  to engage with the forests so that they are passionate about conservation
3	such a shame to misss out but needed
3	worried that we wont be able to go to and see forest
3	that they will go extinct and i am scared.as all our native animals are endangered
3	i dont want our creatures destroyed
3	im worried that the kauri trees will die out
3	that is a good idea. but it would be sad tonever walk in a kaur forest again
3	Many animals will become endangered causing our natural habitat to become less resourceful and not great help to the animals in New Zealand
3	if a tree falls in the woods and no person hears it then that forest is possibly one of the most precious things people can do for nature.
3	i am worried because i think more  animals will die.
3	my dad has got it a it sinks
3	we love to be in nature
3	the forest is a calming place that needs to be accessible
3	i think that kauri shouldnt be endangered
3	I think stopping walking and Kauti forests altogether is unrealistic. Hopefully the Kauri will evolve a way to resist the disease
3	its a shame we cant manage our wy trough te problem any better
3	so the kauri doesnt get extinct
3	i hope my trees are ok..
3	I Think some people will be very dispointed because of the thats why iam worried
3	i cant stalk my ex wife when she  walks with her new beta male boyfriend :((
3	I am worried for the fact we might lose the Kauri trees.though i understand that we need to take measures to protect
3	what if there are no more kuari trees left what would happen
3	i think we should care for our kauri.we should potect our native bush.
3	if we exclude ourselves from nature then how will we maintain generaional appreciation for it?
3	i have come to believe that it is too late both in the sense of extant damage to native ecosystems and also the sources of this damage: societal cultural and commercial forces are only accelerating in their scope and their apathy. I feel ever less hope the more I learn.
3	there are more efficent ways to address the climate emergency and if we do not  take action thrn no on will be round to see the kauri forest anyway. go vegan
3	It would be sad to not be able to walkthroughthe Kauri and appreciate them fully.
3	no one wouldstick to the rules
3	we will stuffer if these trees are gone
3	i will never stop walking in the forest
3	can we really do anything to stop kauri dieback?
3	even if we decide that humans should not walk among the kauri I feel that some people will disagree and still damage the trees be walking though the forests
3	because people might stiil want to walk in them
3	I think that the population of native birds could be even lower if we do not take action.
3	ithink it will be sad if we dont get to walk with kauri but its for the best
3	ilove walking in natureand bush. the governmentneed to start printing more and more money to save our nativespecies and treasure. why let us all die.
3	Im a little worried because where would the national birds live like its a forest where different kinds of animals live
3	being able to explore nature and beautiful nz is important but we need tolook after it.. some comprimise would be ideal ofc
3	Because if we lose them then we wont have this question asked
3	People are dealing with covid they are forgetting that there are other diseases too please rember trees are what we breath we need to stop cutting down our breath(trees)
3	I think we should help the trees.
3	i want to see the trees
3	i am scared its going to break down
3	we need to preserve our native species as much as we can
3	the people living near only kauri forest's will have to go a while to go ona greenery walk
3	i want my generation tolive healthy lives
3	walking in forests is lots of fun but native   birds and plants need to be protected
3	they are gorgeous and lovely to look at....
3	im worried that the situation is so bad that we hav to resort to that. However i am willing
3	We need  to protect and look after our forest.
3	it  is sad and dissapointing that we are the cause of destruction to these amazing trees. what if this disease mutatesto kill of other species until there are no trees lift.
3	Because kauri are part of our national identity and we would not like to lose them. Like all threatened species we need to act now so future generations can enjoy our forests
3	whats the point in havng it if u cant enjy it
3	we are not doing enough currently to protect kauri
3	its sad we are spreading the disease
3	What might happen to the Kauri if it is not protected properly?
3	poeple are ignorant to the damage and distruction we as humans cause to nature.
3	Another species becoming extinct due to humanitary influences is horrible to see and I really hope certainmeasurments will be put i plae in te future to safe Kauri trees.
3	because what if we dont have a chance to explore?
3	that we should be more thughtful of are surrounding
3	then we dont get to go on bushwalks
3	if a kauri grows in the forest and no one is around to hear did it ever grow?
3	because some people may not respect those rules
3	rip kauritrees if this doesnt happen
3	the birds will be sad if the kauri die
3	I'm worried that i will never be able to go tramping in nativebush if  we do notlookafter it
3	i wanna walk in one again :(
3	we would miss out on walks and exploring nature but also  do want to protect kauri
3	because i dont like to climb
3	im not sure the generalpublic unerstand the significance
3	i would like to walk through the forests and enjoy the environment GOD made
3	because we cant pee in the forest
3	I AM SAD ABOUT  KAURI TREESARE GETTING KILLD
3	i think  that we should keep the kauri forest safe and let kauri feel happy and try and not let them get in danger.
3	it will be sad if we cnt walk in the forest again
3	because what would happen when the Kauri trees all die?
3	I want evryone to have the oppotunity to see these trees even in a protected enviroment. To save ourforests we need people to b able to see them and want to save them
3	if the deasese keeps spreadibg there night be another virus
3	it takes such extreme mesures to protect eidlifr then what will be the measures for the next problem
3	I think it is a bit scary
3	for people to have the passion and understabdibg thy need to seel and feel the waiua ofthe mighty kauri. having some areas that are available for monitoring these magnificent giants will help the cause. fines for leavibgtracks should incurfines
3	i am worredthat if the forest will die
3	i think rimu is thbestand theyrsuperior and we should protect rimu atall costs
3	That the amazing kauri trees might die because of our actions!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3	he whakaaro nui ki ngaa reanga e haere ake nei
3	welos our heritage and our identity
3	just because all the  animals that  live here will go exstinked and die also get old. it is sad how people can think like that.
3	itsrightbecause we should protectnature as much as we can
3	I  think that they shouldt walk thtiugh a forest abd peppa pig need her milk so p off ad get a life
3	i think that i an worried for the safety of our kauri forests that have been around for millions of years because they could dispear tomorrow for all we know
3	the trees need people to connect with them so they feel the reason why they need to be saved. if someone has never seen their might; how would they know what needs to be saved?
3	there will be nowhere for the wildlifetolive
3	wontbe able too see the beautifu trees
3	I love nature and I would do anything to protect it!
3	i think kauri trees are so important to have in Aotearoa and i wish we could protect them and still be able to enjoy them :)
3	it will prove difficult to keep people out...
3	no bush walks for the next gen
3	Kauri should be protected but we also need to learn how to better look after the
3	that people should  treat  them heathly
3	its sad thatwemay never be able to be near kauri trees because of this disease
3	because then we won't get to enjoy our nature
3	we are slowly losing that kind of forest and itll go extinct if we dont do something about it
3	our trees are part of who weare
3	they are prt of ourland and ourheritae
3	because ive had a cold forso longit getting annoying
3	because the white man keep destoying our planet
3	im jose quizon and im cool
3	incase it dosentwork    and animals die andin the end there is nothing left in all contenents because peoplearent treating thisas a crisis therefore do nothing aboutit
3	because we want to  see nature.
3	i like singing the Blues Borthers songs and two and a half men
3	i think that we wont take care of it
3	i think that if i never get to walk amongst beutiful kauri trees i will be verry sadness
3	I think that is a very good idea but we can not explore  the kauri forrests.
3	i am worried because they might die
3	if we dont have trees we wont live so stop cutting down trees we need people to stop cutting down trees and rember to wash your hands
3	because while they should be protected it is also a big part of nz and it would be sad i we never get to see them
3	it is nice to walk in forests
3	without seeing what we are protecting less people will care about the reasons why we are doing it
3	there beautiful trees and i love veiwing them
3	i am worried that we will run out out of kauri trees
3	its not nice to think that we wont be able to experience nature.
3	moku ake. ki te ngaro ko te taiao me ona kaitiaki. ka ngaro hoki ko te tangata
3	cause i wont to walk in bushes
3	i would love to prtectthe tree
3	i enjoy walking through the bush and seeing all he greenery if we kill off these trees it will be sad :(
3	we should be able to enjoynature and breathe the oxygenated air they create
3	ok now i think it is about to explode
3	i want to walk in a forest
3	becuase its what makes new zealand so special and different
3	We should be able to walk in forests no matter whateven if endangered birds are in it
3	ts importnt fr the i wuv trees.meow
3	i think that we should do it but we got to be careful
3	BECAUSE I WONT TO BE ABLE TO DO IT!!!
3	worried that may become a reality
3	I am worrie because they are dying and theyarenative to NZ.
3	i am worried we will lose the trees
3	i like to think we can manage the disease so that we can still visit kauri. i think people  need to know things before they can care for them. we need to visit to really know.
3	i feel we should experience seeingit
3	I like walking in kauri forests and where we live our mountain has kauri in it.
3	i wont be able to  go in a forest so i will feell bad
3	if we are protecting we should be able to walk in the forests again but it will tak time
3	i think we should what w can to preserve the forest best we can
3	I WANT SOME WATER TO DRINK RIGHT NOW. I NOT HAD ANY WATER YET TODAY.
3	we should both manage to go on walks and protect the enviroment which i know we
3	becaus the forests r probabl vry pretty
3	i wish i coud say we truly care. i doubt that we care enough to pay the price
3	i will die in the fucher
3	people need to be more aware and educate themselves. we need to protect our natives .
3	walking with Kauri is a special sacred experience. We all need these experiences.
3	because we would like to work through them to enjoy them
3	im worrid that my bro is a fart face
3	its a worry that its more than simple transfer from humans. i thinkwe could avoid a lot of land yet the problems will cobtinue...more reserch needed not a simple solution
3	he tipua te raakau noo reira me anipaa ka tika te iwi. ki te kore taatou e whakaora i ngaa uri a Taanemahuta ka ngaro taatou katoa
3	how will we build cool ship masts?????????
3	it will be very hard for humans to give up our self privileged status in the world. good luck matua kauri!  x
3	WORRIED ABOUT NOT BEING ABLE TO ENJOY KAURI AGAIN IN MY LIFETIME
3	we should be able to walk with kauris
3	The people should be able to get to know and understand what they're protecting. What will happen in the future if the younger generations don't even know what they're staying away from in order to protect?
3	people sould de woried for the forist we live n it nacks me sad tho even wheb i love out fris
3	Because if you cut down trees pepole wontsivive longer
3	the word is facing an ever looming of a lack of biodiversty
3	because i lost my whole family
3	WE WILL NEVER GET TO EXPLORE THE WILD ND FUTURE GENERATIONS WOULD NEVERGET WHATIT FEELS LIKE IN THE FORREST
3	plz dibrdt gurt datres tgey didn nitifbftoyo
3	because now i cant eat toasted kiwi  for lunch
3	humans are spreading diseases and that sounds bad
3	because if our trees have been cut down we won't survive
3	plz don hurt the treez they did jak shit tk u
3	i hope we wont be too late
3	it would be very sad if we couldnt walk among kauri again.
3	it might be good butpooooooo badenis abuttbutttt
3	l like going on walks but i do not want they do die
3	they are endangered so we should try to save them
3	its scary that we have had to come to this
3	number 15 burger king foot lettuce. the last thing you want in your burger king burger is someones foot fungus but as it turns out that might be what you get.
3	it would be a sad thingto not walk in the forests surrounding my home ever again
3	experience is important for us to remember why and what we protect
3	there worried because its a desease
3	i am worried that the trees will die out and we will not be able to live so trees are really important
3	keep people away for 30 YEARS
3	we should be able to wlk in ourbush have a foo bath to disinfect
3	Kauri trees are a native tree if we can never see them again it will be sad :(
3	i feel worried beavause if this disease does not stop our native trees could become excitnct
3	it should come with our human  instict to show care and compassion to a dying world
3	we stumbled into  such a rich word   we must learn totreasure it
3	i thinkwe should protect kauri but it would be sad to not walk in the bush to see them
3	i'm somtims worried that somthing is going to happen.
3	i dont know if we can save then
3	that it is good to save the tree but i also want to show it to the world
3	we shoukd   save the kauri but i would still like to walk  in the forests
3	lost to many indigenous plant/wild life
3	i enjoy the bush but if i protect the bush then i wont be abe to enjoy the bush the same way my ancesters had once enjoy ed but if i enjoy the bush then my mokopuna wont be able the bush enjoy. how about we care and enjoythe bushat the same time
3	i thibk fart smells really yummy on a bg tuesday
3	i dont  know where i am get  me out of this  plac please help me
3	we didnt make the disese we just spreed it like rats let it be maybe some will survive
3	i think we have once chance to preserve our biodiversity and we are not doing it
3	because it may not work and we can die quicker and  notslower
3	HUMANS ARE MONSTERS AND DO NOT REPECT NATURE. DISGRACE.
3	about our planet we only have one plant
3	cause i dbt wabt tem todie
3	we need tobrotectournaturebututvsucks tibthibkbthat we nay never getto walk amung them
3	well some people arecoke people sa
3	its a hugeimpact in todays soccity
3	l think the plant are dieding . So please look after our plant.and look after your plant.
3	if we arent careful we will kill our forest
3	theexerience of waljibg the kauri tree is sad
3	its sad i like seeing all th greenery
3	I WISH to continue walking in the forests.
3	we should be  aware that they are precious
3	because i want to share and enjoy kauri and nz bush with my children. seeing and touchingis learnng. what if wecant see kauri anymore?
3	everyone should be trying harder to improve our enviroment and help global warming people take this world for granted.
3	forests are important and we should be able to visit
3	it might not work and we wont be able to walk and no kauri
3	i am worried because theymight die and nobody wants that
3	these beautiful trees are made for looking at. even if lots of birds live in there.
3	I Think that it is important to care for   the enviromnt
3	because people like the walks and we wanna keep doing them and they are fun
3	I AM WORRIED ABOUT THE KAURI TREES
3	i think thisis worrying becasue kauri arequite native in new zealand and forthem to decrease in numbers should be very worrying for al of nz
3	I chose worried because people want totake a walk
3	its unfair for the people who want to go in the forest
3	that this shuld and shouldnt happen this is because we may nt get to walk forestsbutwill prevent kauri dieback
3	weall need to share for the next generation
3	because there is so much animals and i  hate the dark
3	i think kauri trees are great like tane mahuta so i think kauri de back is very bad for them and the enviroment
3	our land is filled with life and i dont like a futurewhere is no animals
3	THAT WE SHOULD STOP HUMANS  FROM INVADING THE FOREST. THATS ONE OF THE NLY WAYS
3	bECAUCE IT IS IMPORTANTTO KEEP OUR NATURAL HABBITAT
3	i am an idiot and  my name is isaac
3	i am worried that i wont have trees  when i am older
3	im worried for the future of the kauri trees
3	We need to protect our forests. I worry that we are on the verge of losing them. We need to make sacrifices to ensure we have a world to live in.
3	protect butstill be allowed to walk though them
3	i think i am going to die soon this is a cry for help please help me
3	that no one should be able to kill any animals including sea creturs
3	I'm worried because we need to keep our native animals safe.
3	humans need to stop being selfish
3	our generation and the current generation are apathetic
3	we might lose our kauri forests
3	is philosophy yee? cant see so whats the point sorta thibg?  but theyneed  protection
3	It is worrying that we are losing trees and wildlife in our beautiful country
3	because i couldnt walk to my favourite waterfall in piha.
3	i think we should protect from virus and disease
3	humans are too dumb to save them :)
3	I AGREE W THE REASON BUT FEEL SAD ABOUT NOTWALKIN AMONGST KAURI AGAIN
3	ihope we do getto see them again
3	its scary because the are pests
3	surely there must be a win win soution :(
3	Protection of our ancestors and taonga is a job for all of us. Locking them away may restrict the discovery of solutions. Definitely control the conditions to prevent further damage but keep the wairua and mauri open.
3	i thnk we might forget about kauri if we cant see them.
3	because it would be sad not to experience the wonder
3	i am worrid adout the trees
3	I would be sad never to walkin a kauri forest again but sadder if kauri died out
3	i think the tourism industry would struggle but its what we have to do
3	kauri are inpotant to new zealand
3	sacrifice is hard but it will be necessary to protect our ecosystems
3	I am worried because this idea is a clear reminder of the danger we pose to nature. Even our presence among our trees is a threat.
3	i  think that  we should  keep the animals  safe.
3	we need to be sure that kauri remain long into the future
3	i am scared that it will break down
3	t is rely bad and they should stop
3	IT MAKES ME WORRY THAT WE WILL LOSE THIS OLD GAINT TANE MAHUTA BEFORE DOC CAN DO ANYTHING TO PREVENT THIS DIESASE
3	if we dont get to see the tree in the forest how do we know it is there
3	i like walking in nature and i dontwant to lose it.
3	I feel that people won't try
3	I think that the natural beauty of our world is fragile and in our hands
3	birds are cool and they live like me so we twins
3	no one should harm anyone its cruel dont hurt others
3	if it comes at the expense of peoples well being it could jeopardise some fundamental rights
3	please look after our kauri and our forest .
3	i feel sad about that idea.
3	because Kauri good. Go follow @########_####### and @############_##and @######### PLEASE
3	i think we need to remember how to be integrated with nature. locking it away only serves to continue to reinforce the wrong ideas about humans being separate from nature.we are one.
3	humans arent capable of coexst with nature.
3	The larger the tree the more carbon dioxide can be converted.
3	i think  worid means like your worid that your intruble
3	as my children ma not get to experience the bush as i have.
3	that if we dont act up that the beatiful trees will perish under our own hands
3	we  need to  look for a cure     now
3	alot of ournative tees ae getting diease
3	i am worried i will never be abble to  walk in a   kaoriforest
3	apart from humans much work needs to be dne cntroling the ever increasing wild pig population in our northern kauri forests
3	i think that if we dont get to walk our forest again  our generaton and the coming generations wont get  to  experience it. butif we dont help it then we wnt get to see it for good.
3	i like forist dis ide not goob
3	first of all kids should be able to see thebeauty of nz
3	i think our children will never be able to experience nz the way i did growing up
3	WE SHOULD PROTECT THE KAURI TREES BUT WE SHOULD STILL BE ABLE TO SEE THEM FIRST HAND. SEEING THE GIANT ONES IS A GREAT SPIRITUAL EXPERIENCE.
3	the forest is apart of newzealand
3	i love nature and so leave it alone
3	we are not taking this seriously enough
3	i think thateveryone should have a sayin this.
3	we need to preseve whatwe have before we lose it and forfuture genorations
3	i do not get to see them
3	we need to protect our home that provides for our needs.
3	i think we should stay away let them grow
3	because trees are a important part of nz nature
3	no one will dowhatneeds to  be done
3	unless kauri dueback can be halted we may not have any kauri left. Everyone must work hard to protect our kauri
3	because  trees are very special to me
3	humans may care and be well meaning but still ignorant about whats actually requred
3	ppl will wanna save what they can see
3	because we are hearing bad things aboutpeople notcaring for the planet
3	nobody knows how to prevent kauri dieback. im not convinced the measurescurrently being taken will even help
3	it would be sad if the kauri all die.
3	i agree with the idea but it doesn't seem like a good sign that we have to do it. i also worry it might not be enough...
3	no trees means we could have a shortadge of clean air
3	worried aboutnot seeing kauri any more
3	it s sad to not be able to enjoy the nature
3	because we cant walk through the forests
3	we should do anythin to sav our nature
3	WE NEED TO BE ABLE TO ENJOY OUR WORLD
3	i want a peen in my bum
3	that when i die i wont see my mum and dad agian
3	because i love being in nature but kauri trees are important
3	we need to stop cutting down trees and we need to all plant more trees so please stop cutting down trees so that we can all live
3	i m worried i will never see any beutifyl trees for the rest of my life
3	Trees are amazing so they should definety deserve to live!!
3	not makibg people walk in kauriforests could help but it could be more f apunishment for us than a helpful thibg for the kauri forests.
3	kauri are beautifull and they support the life of many epiphyte plants
3	im worried because if we can't walk in kauri forests then how can we study them and get up close to kauri trees
3	because   people will ignore what people  say
3	there is too much hubris in people
3	i want my great grand chidren to appreciate thesebeautiful trees
3	beacuse wildlife is beingg harrased by plastic
3	people are not caring for trees
3	Mainly i just love chicken and burgers because food is yum. From Hacksaw
3	we wont be able to go on bush walks any more with our familys but we can take care by stiking to the path and look after natuer
3	i think he is not worriedabout me
3	it would be sad to give up walking through beautiful kauri forests. worth it if it means saving them.
3	we shouldprotect them and save them
3	because I wantto enjoy thr forest
3	am worried because soo we won' t even be able to see the forestsand it worries me that some of us don't care :(
3	i would still like to be able to be within touching distances of the great tree
3	i think that it is important to protect our forests but  its sad tothink that illnever touch a kauri agan
3	i love this idea but some people love kauri forests and i dont really want to take this away from them. plus kauri is a big part of maori culture
3	because its native tree and its very pretty
3	i grew up being able to korero up close with Kauri.
3	no access to bush is depressing and what is tge point of it.
3	worried because we need to keep native trees alive and thriving
3	because then we wont beable to injoy it
3	that wuld be such a shame and its hard to appreciate these trees if you cant walk amoung them. but if it comes to that we should restrict peoples access as the trees are more imortant.
3	i want my family and friends future to be when the earth is healthy and okay but abults and idiots stop that from happening. I want the earth to be filled with amazing animals again.
3	Im worried its coming to this that even trees are becoming a zoo we need to protect and manage our eco system everyone needs to be involved
3	we should keep our enviroment with us
3	becase i am nt sure if enough positive action will be taken in time to save and revitalise kauri forests
3	we will not get to enjoy native bush
3	because if people want to explor nature where can they do it
3	may not have the opportunities for childen ad future
3	because if we dont look after them they might die.and we wont see them again.
3	he idea of limiting humna cnatct with kauri trees to protext the species is a good idea; but i am worried that the inability to interact with the trees will interfere with tourisim and for some it is an importat experience
3	i am confused. this question is a fallacy.
3	because it will benic to see  navtie tree
3	we need tolookafter our naturl envronment
3	that people wont cooperate so it wont be enough to save kauri
3	it would be sad to not see the kauri
3	it would be a sad day without them
3	some people arent concerned that their actions could wipe out kauri from aotearoa. also when we are not allowed to engage with aspects of nature it disconnects us from nature. for young people who might never stand with a kauri they might not understand the importance of kauri
3	Because they might go into EXTINCTION
3	i hope we can  walk in areforset again
3	becauseif do not have kaori trees no place in the world will have thembecause they are native .
3	i would like too see them
3	itssad and worries me as im from that region and my great grandmother was a midwife in the waipoua frest takes away some of my whakapapa. te roroa is doing great as kaitiaki
3	i like trees but i like me more
3	becase we will never see kari forest
3	because new zealands wildlife number would go down
3	we should protectour native animals plants and habitats
3	we should do something positve for them not always think aboutourselves
3	if we have to use thant extreme idea then i must be sirous.
3	i think nature being preserved is more important than a human experience. i am worried that many others chose to ignore or disagree with that
3	i am worried because there might be oter forests that people still gointo
3	not many people are worried about longterm consequences
3	we need to find a way to do both. ecotourism
3	want to look after our kauri forest
3	people need tonow that we are harming our world not "making it a better place" and i think right now people dontunderstand.
3	I am worried the Kauri willnot be aroun
3	we should plant trees like mrbeast
3	Because I am worried about the shifting environment and what that mght do to the Kauri forests
3	ka?r? sh??ld b? pr?t?ct?d b?t  ?t w?ll b? ? sh?m? t? n?t b? ?bl? t? w?thh?ld th??r b???ty w?th ??r ?wn ?y?s
3	people engage better when  they can  see and  interact withnatureor theproblem  it makes it feel REAL to them
3	it woul b very disappointing to miss all that beauty
3	we should be a part of nature not the antithesis of it which is what conservation seems to think. like observers from the outside looking in.
3	about how we impact the enviroment
3	becausewe should be able to look after the tree and alsogo on walks to enjoy how amazing they.
3	i think that it is sad and because i like trees a lot.
3	worried about trees that may die
3	we need to edcate more people about our world
3	Experience brings the cause closer to your heart.
3	because the forest is his home
3	worried about the state of the world and how wedont look after it
3	because kauri trees are a part of nz nature.
3	It is scary to think about all of the nature things that seem to be broken right now.
3	i always im right listen to me
3	I  worry that people wont care
3	i like forests but ithink we sould protectthe tree even if i cant walkina forest again
3	When some of the forests shutdown to us humans we wont be able to makeit pest free as we wouldnt be able togo in it. Also this means there will be less tracks to walk on and we would never see kauri again which is bad for kids learning.
3	i am worried because we want to nature. see
3	I worry that we're to late to  undo the damage
3	It's  because  we   could  never  back  again
3	yall should be worried cause in king YEETMAS
3	i think that people should actually know that this is happening
3	all the birds will get extinct
3	i dont want the kauri to go down because they protect nature
3	that animals shouldnt be forced out of their homes and should be treated like a equal
3	it is an important partf our lives
3	Its sad that we've come to this
3	They are very magestic trees and they are living creatures like us humans so they deserve respect
3	because we.re a bunch ofdunb arsees
3	if i  didnt get to   walk in a kauri forest. i feel sad.
3	because im old and wont get to see them again
3	I'm concerned that there are selfish people who are and will ignore protection measures set out by the city council likeminded partners. We need everyone to support presevation and protection measures.
3	EVEN THOUGH WE NEED TOPROTECT KAURI WE STILL SHOYD BE ABLE TO GO IN THEIR FORESTS RIGHT?
3	because humans dont seem to care enugh about nature. but its nature in its full complexity that keeps us alive.
3	i think its concerning to make decisions about how other people should live their lives when we dnt u derstand all the reasons why
3	it wont be enough.people will not follow guidelines
3	i dont want our kauri to dieout
3	i  would be sad to not see them
3	i want to walk in theforest
3	without them we losing our eco heritage
3	it would be great for younger generations to see the forests and know exactly why they need protection; and they wont be able to that if they can never walkn them again.
3	hat i willpee my pants in my drippanporsh
3	sure but i would like tostill walk amongst those giants
3	abut our trees caron fotprint stop polluting
3	beceuse I think more birds will get extinked.
4	Imnot happy aboutit bc the forest is nature and the trees gves us oxygen for us living
4	i tink my right to walk overrules the right to tree life. how dare you prioritise tree life over mine
4	I want to be able to go on walks in the kauri forest
4	dad wont let me go in the shake house
4	T?K?  WH?K??R? M? wh?k?mutu i te  mutua te mate uruta kei te whaka mmaee maha nga tanga inaanei noreira ko tera noa
4	i want to walk  on the tracks
4	because tree are importamt to us in the word
4	because humans arent doing enough tomake our environment sustainable for the generations to come
4	i want to walk in forest
4	That people stand on kauri and it kills the inosent trees
4	beacuse that mnswe cant c the wildlifw
4	fuck i hate my life everyday is shit fuck all you hoes
4	we should keep the trees alive. As human race we must do our best to save our unique planet for the rest of our generations.
4	people arelazy and dont care for the environment
4	nature should be owned and contollrd by man
4	WAIT WHATS GOING ON WITH MY TREES!? YOU TOLD ME THAT YOU WILL TAKE CARE OF EM POSSOMS!
4	mywife shouldlet me sleepwith multiple men and wtch gape horn
4	That ten percent needs to listen you should care about trees or fine you can breath plastic boom  honey
4	i think this deases is uncommon but dangerou
4	sxdfddx  zz zsdfgbsmssmmzzzxcxZZZZZZZZZSDFFGGCDDDFDDCGGFDXFFFFDSAXSSZZZDBBRBBFFFBFBFBFBFDSBSBBBASSVDBBDDVVDVDVDBDDV DFVFVBBB    Z        XDDBBBBDDx   ss   SBSBDDHSSHD HH ahhahashhzh hsh haahahaAhsssss
4	my name is #### and i no longer wish to be alive
4	this is boring sugma nuts all three of them
4	I think yes but how to make soon
4	i think they are cool and they are a part of our world
4	i really enjoy going for walks in forests seeing wildlife. when i heard that the kauri trees are slow going away its really upseting
4	i am angerman becuz i am angry at my wyfe
4	this is a bad idea because nosqgerwedheiueifsuuufuhadudfafhfvdsfavgufvsugsd
4	corporate greed is destroying the planet
4	yet again we have failed to look after our special envoiroment
4	that my brothes a didface /(
4	i faint when i see birds
4	gr you makemyblood bil tree huggers
4	we shoul be able to enjoy the forests. they can become a reserve.
4	pain engulfs me it is indescribable the trees followme help they can walk wit roots of god he is here aaaaaaaaaaaaa
4	defeats the whole purpose of this operation we should fix this mess and be able to enjoy it a the same time.
4	IM ANGRY!!!! I HATE MY WIFE!!!!
4	we are being pushed away from nature
4	ignore ##### all she does is hurt people like me for example.
4	too much power given to doc
4	i want to see them!!!! pl??s? l?tm?!!!!
4	i am angry because people throw rubbish on the grownd save the  earth
4	tracks can be built to protect roots. also  is the science poven.
4	because i thing #### is obssed with videogames
4	i spent my last 100 dollars on scratchies and didnt even win a free ticket
4	i am angry that we have not funded science better to combat kauri dieback
4	i think ###### doesnt like milk lol
4	we need th? f?r?st t? l?v?
4	i dont like it because some pople might like walking in those forests
4	then we will never see kauri again
4	i think that that is supper mest up
4	You can still protect the forest and walk among the trees. Humans and trees are connected and shold never be .separted
4	becsuse kauri  are for  us to breath
4	more people need to care about trees and forst
4	i want to walk in forests
4	im angry cause ##### is mean and fat
4	i think this is an outrageous idea and me and my iwi will have a hui tonight discussing further consequences
4	im angry that my friend codent came
4	that my DA BABY convertible will never get to be seen with kauri andthat is bad for my tinder profile
4	its sad because ifil sad in the forist
4	that we should protected our trees but we should still be abeal to see them
4	IMSADCAUSE MY WIFES BOYFRIEND WONT LET ME PLAY XBOX
4	i love deez nu t s
4	i love wlking in bushes so i thik if we allgane enouj respect to leave them alone we will be fine
4	i think your a chiken nugget
4	its dumbto do thi when iwas borb
4	ii cant remember how to shit
4	this is stupid i like  walking
4	because i wantto see them abd inakesme angry theymight die
4	It is a dumb idea to get rid of Kauri trees because they are native to New Zealand
4	trees are apart of our worldthey should be treated likre  how we  are
4	they want to keep humans locked up in densely populated cities
4	in angry at ####### because he said i dont care when everyone should care about are planet
4	i think that there has to be a better way i still want to be able to walk in the forests
4	my dog wassexuay assaulte by a atholic priest
4	SOLE MOI B WAT U DOIN
4	l am angry because we love yige
4	Because I didnt get to eat today
4	i am angry because people are polluting
4	because i hate that idea soooooooo much
4	it is because never get to  walk in is sad
4	because i have to be here
4	because humans are killing the plants and thats just cruel
4	it is annoying to not see big kauri trees n the wild
4	ur an idoit shutup and die
4	thatkauri trees are important to our inviourment
4	it is horrible that not enough people are paying any attention to this matter :(
4	i think that kauri trees are child predetors and must be eliminated
4	i miss all the walks thave been closed
4	I personally know tangata whenua treating kauri with rongoa. Our job is to be kaitiaki, not be excluded from the process. Everyone wants the same outcomes, but I/we feel excluded.
4	i think some people are stupid
4	this is a very one sided biased survey
4	trees ar ba d and shulddyeppp
4	As we cant feel the nature
4	kauris are lame trees and i like kauri diback mmm yummy
4	Because NZers should be able to enjoy our forests.More  should be done to saveKauri
4	WEOVE KAURI TREES DBT U DARE AME THEM AWAYFRN USSSS
4	i like to be aroud the kauri and land
4	if you kill all the animals i get angry and plant
4	i still would want to walk in there
4	nature is a  beautiful thing everyone should experience
4	that your being teased and you dont like it and you want some space
4	not enough people care about the ocean and sealife. save the seals!
4	i want to walk in forests
4	i feel like there should be a way to make it so that they are protected but people can still enjoy them in the forrest otherwise what the heck is the point of having them.
4	i hinkwe shouldlegalize the suage of black tarr herooine
4	its an indication of howwe change the environment at a greater rate than we can understand and fix these changes.
4	abut my granddad how might die
4	im angry because humans spread a disease to kauri trees.
4	hahaha my weewee go boing boing boing
4	i hayte those darn trees grrrrrr
4	echo is echoing in an echo
4	because we should be aloud to walk ib tse paces and see these great birds
4	becase your reaking beatifal wild life
4	i think we should make meth legal and ban sex between men and women #sexism #pornhub
4	we will no longer be able to experience the life of the ngahere and tanemahuta trees are a breathe of life to mankind
4	its time we all took resonsibility for ur enviroment and its sustainability
4	itnotfairthat weare  geting all the aniamls to die and we are th ones doing it
4	it is alright but not great
4	people need to be more respextful
4	my mom should let me poop my pants more often .......
4	poopoop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poopo poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poop poo poop poop poop poop
4	we should have a minimum amount  of people in the forests
4	iwontto be able to go into forests but cant if there are none
4	not cool and ruining the environment
4	WHAT IF MELBOURNE HAD A ANOTHER COVID_19  OUTBREAK LOCKDOWN PREMIER OF ######## ####### ####### ?
4	i dont agree with the unproven one sided data that humans are responsible for kauri die back . Leaving the forests without people wlking in them also only increses other animal acctivity which may be more harmful
4	becuse kauritrees are cool and i wantto walk in forests but it was our fault we hav to do ths
4	THE HEALTH AND INTEGRITY OF NZ NATURE SHOULD BE A PRIORITY TO MAINTAIN FOR ALL IN SOCIETY.HOW CAN WE PROTECT SOMETHING IN THE FUTURE IF PEOPLE DONT KNOW WHAT THEYARE PROTECTING?
4	other controls are in place and foot washing stations can be improved. Spreading word about risks more publically(tv/radio) etc. can help more than barring us from enjoyig our natives
4	i poop and want to walk amongst thetreesp
4	5G is ruining the plsnt mking d nt sloud ib teforest boodyjscifsruiing ecobomy covid19 i a scan
4	i think we shoud just clean our feetfirst
4	hopefull angry dont care excited worried  and follow my insta ########
4	i want potato u mother fffff
4	i think theyshould just grow xx
4	that  it doesnt need to  be an either or decision if we invest enough energy intoprotection and maintnance.
4	i dont get that nintendo swich ahhhhhh
4	####### is doing a pussy betalefty commya job and we need too elect nc leader ######## #####
4	I  think that it isimportant for us to be abletoenjoyour forests.  Open the forests ?g??n.
4	you should not read this because plop
4	because then we wont get to see nature
4	i thik this ivery selfisf u
4	i think people should say when they are angry
4	BECAUSE AVOIDANCE IS NOT A GOOD WAY  TOADDRESSTHE ISSUE
4	i know that thereis kauri dieback but shutting th tras foreverisnt going to help
4	it is  a chunky fat piece of wood
4	stupid. my friend campbell like trees like how he likes his women DESTORYEDDDD
4	have you ever done the deed in a public plat
4	We should already have this in place. Humans are the only guardians possible against our own kind.
4	because I cant  be one with nature
4	I think itnever should have got this way
4	i am angry because everyone should be able to  see the kauri
4	that trees were here before us so we should nurture them
4	if thers lots of forests where will our buildings go!!!!!
4	becaus people would like to take walks and admire the kauri trees!!!
4	i have a right to walk in native foresy
4	it might be just not right
4	I think humans suck.We destroy everything.
4	its not just a human spread disese
4	im angry that 10 percent don't care when trees are what are making us alive so please stop cutting down trees and plant more
4	i like walkibg through trees and i think its a nice place. i dont want it to die away
4	I am still hungary after all this time
4	because we should beabmeto wlk inte fores and havea safeenvirment for thespecies
4	beacuse i want to walk in kauri forests
4	my wife leftafter i had a afaair with nutiple men
4	lucia made a poo in front of titty
4	becuse we cant go for a nature walk!
4	i think tht there lots f forestwhere we our building goo
4	i like walking under the trees
4	im angry becous kauri are biying killed for nothing
4	i would like to walk in that particular forest
4	cause you cant walk ina damm forest
4	i dont want our animals birds and plants to die
4	i think ### deserves to  poop on the trees.
4	humanity is selfish uncaring race should be wiped off the plaet
4	its sad it has come to that
4	i want to be with natuer
4	porn should be shown in school due the lack of education toward women
4	i like the trees and it makes me ree
4	because i didnt have chocolate cake
4	i think i have a angry anus
4	i dont getto walk there anymore
4	that we should be able to as long as we cause no harm
4	people shouldent be destroying mother nature. it helps keep people alive
4	it is very sad that we are spredding a disease to birds
4	we should legalize all firearms and mllitary weaposns to the  genral  public as it is my rights to bare  arms #maga# votencparty#fucklibreals
4	peoplethink that their smart to kill kauri but their silly
4	qoke   la MUm     wunet   to   go    sow  es
4	i  hate doing chores lol #billioaki boi
4	i am mad that the forests are dying
4	we should be able to walk in the forest if wetake care
4	what is the point in protecting them if you dont get to walk in theforests and see them
4	Because  humans  are destroying our native trees.
4	we need to work harder to protect them
4	TREES SHOULD NOT HAVE A LIFE CUT THE TREE DOWN ########
4	i think they are ugly and human enjoyment of bush is more valuable
4	me whakahoki te mana o te wao nui a taane. mo taatao aa mo kaa uri a muri ake neo
4	because of this my pp will tingle
4	echo is echoing in an echo which is also echoing in an echo
4	dease we are dstoring forests yay
4	Because  people are spreading the disease.
4	im really angrybecause i will never be able towallk  in that forest again.
4	Im not convinced it is possible to save Kauri trees without making unacceptable sacrifices
4	SO BORING ALTHOUGH I LIKE UR CUT G
4	im angrythat my wife doesnt let me do incest withmyson
4	im mad cause  i didntgeta donut
4	all maori peopleare beautiful and all white peopleare racist
4	how can we call ourselves intelligent beings whn we are the only ones desroying everything we are. we are natur. theres no planet b. wake upthere no such thing as short term gains. save the future for humans because we will die. but the earth will still stand. the nature is all
4	im married to a tree so i wont be abe to see my lover anymore :(
4	THE CAT  SCRACHED ME WITH ITS CLAWS
4	I DONT  GET WHAT I WHONT
4	is it ok if i kill your family and bust your house down?
4	u suck u kil my tree hid name wad dJ v.j aka dJ figinafjdfhjfhijifdufujfhcujifjffiiifgig
4	i am better then youat brawl stars lol get noob
4	i think we should clean our feet before we visit the trees
4	people dont know their place in the world
4	we still need to be able to enjoy the bush not just kock it up.  change is part of nature.
4	i wnt walk in a forest again
4	i like forests and the animals thatlive inside of them.
4	we should be able to breath air and plants are still living
4	STHERE ARE BIGGER PROBLEMS THAN PROTECTING KAURI TREE
4	we should legalise sex in school #pornhub live #childporn
4	walkijgin kauri fret is sicko mode
4	h vg  cf c cf cc  cf tftgr
4	all you have to do is wipe your shoes down before you go neer the tree
4	I think we should find a way to savethem and be able to look anwalk beside them
4	these men and the patriarchy are opressing me with there r4p3 culture
4	i think we should just clean our feet before we visit them
4	people rioritise their own comfort over nature
4	because ##### is mean to me
4	feel that we should be aloud o explre one of nz best tree history
4	angrey because we wont be able to see the trees again if they all die
4	because i couldent find socks today
4	because  i want to worc in the forist.
4	what is the point of keeping something that you cant see alive? almost like ios 12 support in 2021
4	we have known for quite a while now and yet some people persist in walkng in kauri areas even though they are closed off in some cases. throw them in gaol i say!
4	these men and the pariarchy are oppressing me withthere  dig bicks
4	i want to go on a work in the forist and see all the trees
4	Because it means that people that have never seen a Kauri tree might not ever get to see one.
4	not going into a kauri forest is absolutely the right thing to do however it is sad to think that some peoplemay never experience the grandure of standig before a kauri tree.
4	we should allow people to enjoy nature
