3	... we need to work hard to make it happen
0	3d is better than other bands in the whole country
1	a ban on sales of new petrol vehicles would be more sensible than an outright ban .  an outright ban is itself wasteful
0	A carless life is much more fun
1	A good idea in theory but would have to change a lot of infrastructure. Not to mention industry and jobs.
1	a good idea to protect our earth !
0	A good opportunity to reduce harm to the environment
4	A N G E R Y
1	A s part of many other changes
0	A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
1	A step in the right direction.But not enough.Agriculture and industry needs to change dramatically.
1	A suitable alternative is needed before they can be banned such as hydro.
3	a viable alternative is needed. lithium battery powered cars are not the long term technology. we need a new energy storage system
0	a viable alternative should be found and used by all
0	a world where petroleum rules will lead to an early denise. fossil fuel is not the futureand leads to far more than just climate change
2	ī dōnt knōw why thīs īs ā gōōd ōr bād īdēā
0	about other ways to make thm drive
1	about time to ditch old unhealthy technology. we have better alternatives now
1	ACTION IS THE ONLY WAY TO MAKE CHANGE. ALSO BAN ANIMAL AGRICULTURE
3	ahhhhhhhhhhhh help someone oh and u shut it mahi i thought we were friends but i thought wrong
0	all i can say is tesla
0	all the fish and all the birds are so exciting to see!!!
0	all the thibgs in the museum are verry intreaging
1	Alternative energy sources are readily available. We should not sacrifice our environment for monetary savings.
0	alternative fuels are the future. both economically and sustainably. onward.
0	alternative less polutant technologies should be introduced
1	alternative resources need to be more extensively used to ensure the earth continues to be inhabitibe for future generations to come
0	alternatives exist and should be utilised
0	alternatives exists. fund for thefuture not the short term
3	Although electric cars may have less emissions when you use them. They still require earth magnets to be mined and use lithium batterys
0	although it produces more carbon to make the motor of an electric car it would be worth it in the long run.
1	Although it's a good idea; I hope that the infrastructure to facilitate renewable energy is able to support the demand. If fossil fuels are used to generate electricity for electric cars; what good is being done?
1	Although the phasing out of fossil fuel burning transport is still important it is only marginally helpful compared to the phasing out of animal agriculture (that feeds our huge and unnucessary apetite  for animal food products) which would be far more beneficial for reducing greenhouse gas emmissions (currenty over 50 percent f global outpt)
1	ALWAYS AN OPPORTUNITY TO IMPROVE THINGS
1	amber is cool amber is cool amber is cool amber is cool amber is cool amber is cool
0	an eco friendly new zealand should he future because otherwise there may not be one
1	animal agriculture is the leading polluter and contributor to climate change. yes i do think that our transport related meissions need to be cut back but i feel that it is more efficient and significantly better for the environment and that that should be encouraged
0	Animals lived happier when humans were not around. Humans have been mean to them.
0	any step towards better more eco sustanable living is good. nxxxx mxx please
1	Anything running on petrol should be banned by 2030 (or earlier!).
0	anything the individual can do they should.
1	Aotearoa has always b a labratory for bold progressive policies. This is another area where we could be world leaders.
1	areelectic cars really sustainable? howwilllectricity be produced? are solar/wind energies really sustainable?
3	As a car enthusiast this worries me because I quite like petrol powered cars and it'd be a shame to see them no longer on the roads
1	as a nation we should recognise that we are depleting ournatural resources
3	as acar person and hotrodderyou should have a right to use old vechicles and keep the history going
1	as hjjjjjjnnn xcbjx      FHDVB                vvvvv                       vvvv          vvv                   vvvv            vvvvvvvvvvvvvfnzvv x  bncdfzhvjfsdhhgasdxddghchjcjhg.k gckfvfhbir  xvb                                                            gg                                                                                        f                                                                                                  vvvvv vvvv
1	As long as electric cars have a charge that lasts for long haul and can quickly recharge  -  great!
1	as long as ellectric cars become moreafordable for your everyday young adult / student theni think its great
1	as long as we can genertae enough electricity to handle them.
1	As long as we do electric vehicles I am happy for this as petrol pollutes and is bad for the enviroment.
0	as much as curren telectric cars still require either fossil or nuclear fuel reactors  nuclear fusion plants are edging closer and so can provide cheap and really green electricity
1	as nice as the idea is just stuck in old ways
0	as not to exacerbate our present pollution
3	ashamed when we used to do it right. how didwe get so lazy
1	at least within city centres there is absolutely no need however electric cars still need to improve
4	BĒCĀŪSĒ wē nēēd pērtrl tō wōrk ōūr cārs
0	Balance this out with responsible and accessible public transport - and enable subsidies for transitioning to electric cars if the costs remain prohibitive
4	banned seems a little excessiv. i would b okay with them being less common
4	banned? No. They should be naturally phased out as part of a normal ownership lifecycle.
3	banning cars alone wont be effective. need to put other actions in place at same time.
0	banning fossil fuel vehicles would be a big step forward for our nation caring about our environment
3	banning petrol car is not a solution without a good alternative transport option. maybe if we have a better public transport system or more choices on electric cars. 5 G NET WORK might help?
0	banning petrol cars is a fantastic idea. Lets look after our beautiful planet.
0	banning petrol cars is one of many necessary changes we must make to fix the climate emergency we are faced with
3	banning petrol vehicles will place a huge burden on low incomes.  as they rely on cheap petrol vehicls to earn a living
4	Bans are too severe. Significant restrictions are welcome but not an outright ban.
3	Batteries are also bad for the environment and production of new vehicles to relace them is not good either.
2	batteries bring another kind of problem
1	battery production has to be eco friendly too
0	bc it sucks for the air. go electric cars!!!!! :)))
1	bcause they hurt the environment by emittin fossils fues into the atmosphere
1	bcause this the mst imrtant issue facing the planet
1	bcause we are gonna help the earth
3	bcauseit s a woerribg situatib we areib
0	be interesting to see it happen and work globally
1	be nice to reduce our emmissions
1	be prepared to pay tax I dont own a car...but an ebike and use train bus taxi. petrol vehiclesshould be limited to public transport  ambulances and delivery vehicles initially till more sophisticated  public haulage people and goods alternative vehicles are built. we should be serious about air pollution and pay tax for survival
4	be realiistic. N Z are such a small total polutant when the world total is used
0	beacase their would be less pullotion
0	Beacause I am going to have a sleepover with O#### and H#### SO EXCITED and it is already happening.
0	beacause I am going to have a sleepover.
3	Beacause I am worried of this .BEFORE TEST USE DO NOT USE IF TEST  FAILS
0	BEACAUSE MY FRIED ELAINE IS HAVING SLEPOVR WIV ME
0	beacause petrol cars are killing us slowly
0	beacause they pullute the earth relly bad
0	beacuse then there wont be that much global warming
0	Becāūsē thēy ārē bād fōr thē ēnvīrōnmēnt
1	becaie it would be good but i do not know if it would be able to happen due to the amount of people who can no afored to buy elictret cars however they may become cheaer inthe future.it would be AMAZING if buy 2030 there would be no petrol would be banned.
1	becase we ae slowy but surly killingour earth
1	becaue it will help the planet
1	becaus cars that use petol can kill the air so we  will notbe able to breath
4	becaus if wednt have petrol how will our cars work wewill have to bike back to dannevirke
2	becaus the structral integrity of farming vehicles cannot rely on the ability of an eelectic machine. the power needed is to vast heavy for electricity
1	becaus the world is losing the o_ zone
1	because                otherwise the world be extinct
0	because   it  is good for the environment
0	because   it is good for environment yay!
0	because  i hate climate change we should ban petrol
1	because  if we ceepe  driveing it will pilote more and more are hole unervers will die and there will be nothing lefte
1	because  it is causing serious pollution resulting in climate change
0	because  its herting the plannet and its lazy its better to ride a bike.
3	because  not many  public transport are electric
3	because  people  cant  always aford car with batterys
1	because  petrol cars are polluting the earth and if we keep driving petrol cars then all the animals could die and earth could be a big round ball of pollution.
1	because  we will get a clean air
3	because  we will have no cars
1	because 2030 my be too late to fix the problems thatwill happen befor then
0	because a TESLA is way better
3	because all the good cars thatuse petrol will go to the scrap and the electric cars that take 1 hour to charge willbe in the world but still its causing less polution
3	because battery cars wont last and the lithium mines do more damage to the earth
2	because before this happens you' d need people who cant afford new cars to suddenly be able to afford them. i think it might be possible in a larger time frame. there might be more we can do to save our earth.
0	because cars are the main thing that polutes the air
1	because cars make carbon dioxide/ co2 and that pollutes the air
1	because climate change is bad and not good for the enviroment
0	because climate change is real and my dad obsesses over them
3	BECAUSE ELCTRIC CARS ARE EVEN LESS ENVIRONMENTALY FRIENDLY.
1	because electric cars are getting so good and we need to stop emissions
1	because electric cars will be better for the environment
0	Because electric cars will be the catalyst for wider positive change for a better future.
0	because electric cars will take over and they dont give out any carbon emissions
0	because electric motors have heaps of torque
0	because eletric cars sound cool and petrol is boring. lets move forward
0	Because eneed to try to make our global footpribt smaller and it would help with problems ike cimate change.
0	because etrol cars are bad for the environment
1	because etrol is bad for the enviroment
1	because every little bit helps in reducing the emmisions of our nation
1	because EVs are going to perform as well as petrol soon
1	because fossil fuels will run out sooner or later.
0	because gas is bad for the earth.
1	because gas is bad for us
1	because global warming is real & devastating
0	because global warming makes me sad
1	because global warmng finnamelt this world #saveearth
2	Because having non petrol cars maybe exciting but think about the consequences of having one.
1	because i  think that it is better for  environment
3	because i am sceared of me dying
2	because i dont care and most of      the time i get  anoyed  by my  cousins
2	because i dont really care about it
2	because i don't think it willhappen
1	because i dont want a polluted world.
3	because i dont want to andi really dnt want it to happen
4	because i dont wont   be here
1	because i dontbtrustpoliticians to do the right thing
1	because i doubt it will happen
2	because i just dont care and yeet
1	because i like the idea of alternative energy souces especially sustainable
4	because i live 20 miles fron work
3	because i may not be able to afford a car
4	because i need a petrol car to drive really fast and say vroom vroom vroom to myself
1	because i really want a tesla
0	because i really want to explore the jungles
0	because i relly like it here
4	because i studied and its impossible
0	because i thing it will be better for the environment
0	because i think co2 is evil
3	because i think i should be worried
0	because i think its really cool and theres really cool stuff  and  i want to see all te things .
3	because i think petrol cars can fill up more quickly and they can go more faster than electric cars.i tink..
0	Because I think that eletricty is the future
0	because I think that it will be way better for the enviroment.
1	Because I think that there isnt enough action done to reduce contamination. hopefully this could be something realistic to get done.
0	because i think this will help protect our environment
1	because i think we have a chance
0	because I want all living speices to have a longer life
0	because i want my daughter to have a future
1	BECAUSE I WANT TO KEEP THIS INCREDIBLE PLANET FOR GENERATIONS TO COME
0	because i will be able to drive and it would feal good
2	because i would have no car
0	because idont want to be burned like some bacon
1	because if that happens then global warming might stop and then we wont die
3	because if that happens we wnthave a car
0	because if the petrol is bad for the environment the environment might die
1	because if there's an alternative that works for all on road/ all vehicles then why not?  It would be so good to see the world stop drilling and ruining our earth for this fuel that isn't good for us ; our animals and environment. so im excited to see that bing possible.
1	Because if they are contributing to climate change then we should think of a more sustainable approach
1	because ifwe dont dosomething well were dead
0	because im gonna make a profit from it.. stocks u feel me?
3	because im to lazy to walk
1	Because in the future it can cause big diseases!;)
1	because in the future petrol will be a lot to buyand its better for planet erth
4	Because in their full lifeycle eletric cars cause more pollution withtheir use of heavy metals than petol cars
0	because in this day and age we can do better than petrol cars for our planet
0	because is a good idea for start to take care the environmetal
1	because it coud save our plant
1	because it could help savethe earth
1	because it could make a big impact in lessening greenhouse gas emmissions and could be the milestone for the beggining of a clean future
1	because it could save our planet i hope it will
0	because it gives me hope for the future of the planet
0	because it gonna halp the enviroment and reduce carbon emmissions
0	because it has a better impact on nature
1	because it helps to stop globle warming
0	because it is  bad for our earth
0	because it is a errible techbologoly
4	because it is bad for nature
0	because it is bad for the environment
0	Because it is bad for the environment
0	because it is for the greater good
0	because it is fun and exiting i cant wait to see my bestfriend again
0	because it is good for th enviroment
0	because it is good for the environment
0	because it is good to not use petrol
0	because it is great for the environment and it would help climate change.
0	because it is killing the planetand animals
1	because it is making our world worse then what it is right now when I am standing right now.
1	because it is not good for the environment
1	Because it is our future and we need to save our planet and ourselves.
1	because it is poluting our planet
0	because it is poluting the cit
1	because it is technology that we should have already passed into obsolecence
0	because it makes the air more fresher
1	because it might help put a stop to global  warming
0	because it put nast air  in good
1	because it saves the enviroment and theres eletric cars
3	because it somtimes helps us find ourway around
1	because it will be better fir the enviroment
1	because it will be better for the planet
0	because it will give nz more enery independence nd reduce emissions
0	because it will help save our plant
0	because it will help stop global warming
1	because it will help the earth a lot more
0	because it will help the enviorment and futher  benifitour future generations of new zealand.
0	because it will help the enviroment
0	because it will help the environment so much
1	because it will help the envviorment and the peeps
1	because it will help us fight climate change
0	because it will let more native animals live and  make less oil spills.
0	because it will lwer the use of fossil fuelsand
0	because it will mean a better life for or bird and wild animals
0	because it will save th earth
0	because it will save the environment
0	because it won't be bad for the environment
1	because it would make a massive change to emissions
0	because itll motivate us to think more communally
3	because its apart of our culture
1	because its bad for the enviroment
0	because it's bad for the environment
1	because its bad for the envroment
1	Because its better for our environment to create less CO2 emissions.
0	because its better for the  earth
0	because its better for the enviroment
0	because its better for the invironment
0	because its better for the planet
0	because its god for the enviroment
0	because its good for the enviornment
0	because its good for the enviromant
4	because its lame leave us gas car users alone!!!!!!
0	because its no ealthy for the environment
1	because it's not a bad idea butit would be very hard
2	because its not lke all cars will be banned
4	Because its not the biggest contributor to greenhouse gas emmissions.
0	because its possible if we are proactive and demand it but we will need financial help  -  the government will need to hand out a subsidy
0	because itwill be goodfor the environmebt
1	because lots of animals are diyingand lotsmore is hapaning
0	Because mother nature is dying and that makes me sad. . :( aaaaaaawwwwwwwww
4	because my brother does not like electric car
0	because my country is finally showing some initiative.
4	because my exhaust wllhave no sound
1	because my kidswobt growup in a dystopia
0	because nature is a really cool thing and everyone should see that
0	because new zealand is better than england
1	Because no petrolcars are much more sustainable and better for the earth.
0	because now the pollution wont hurt the world as much as before
0	because nz is 85 percent renewable energy so it makes sense
1	because of climt change the kids of the futer will want us to
3	because of how much the car will cost. I feel like it will make basic transport a luxuay - making wealth inequality even more stark.
1	because of the co2  thatwe take in our body
0	because oil is a limited resource that weshoudnt abuse
0	because our environment suffer and pollution is bigger than we can to handle. HELP TO STOP CHINA!!!
0	Because our planet deserves better abd humans cando anythbg we set our minds to
0	because our planet is screwed if we do not stop burning fossil fuels
1	because people are making a change.
0	Because people have been using petrol to power their cars for ages and we should stop using it!
4	because people need to be educated on what oils and fuels are actually used for besides cars. after all electric cars etc still need oil based lubricants
1	Because petrol cars are a not goodforthe enviroment
0	because petrol cars are bad for the enrioroment
1	because petrol cars are bad for the enviment
1	because petrol cars are bad for theiiroment so if more people care then i could happen
0	Because petrol cars are bad to the air
0	because petrol cars are bad to the environnment
4	because petrol cars are hurting the planet
4	because petrol cars have been around fo ages
0	because petrol cars hurt the environment
0	because petrol cars pollute and it has to  stop
0	because petrol cars ruin the enviorment
0	because petrol cars use so much fossil fuel. and it will also be less expensive not having to buy petrol!!!!
0	because petrol is an unsustainable resource that pollutes our air. it will hurt our native species and or own lungs. ban it.
0	because petrol is bad for the  invirament
1	because petrol is bad for the enviroment
1	because petrol is bad for the enviroment and is hurting the earth
0	Because petrol is bad for the environment
1	because petrol is bad for the environment
0	because petrol is bad for the environment
1	because petrol is bad for us
1	because petrol is bad. ithurts the environment.
0	because petrol is causing global warming which is affecting us and other animals
4	because petrol is good and electric cas are for beta cucks up the mighty petrol
1	because petrol is paloting the einvronment
1	Because petrol is very expensive and bad for the enviroment.
0	because petrol pollutes the air that we breathe and other animals and plants s things start to die off and we have climate change because of this aswell and i think its a grea idea to get rid of petrol cars and maybe we could go back to biking.
0	because petrol pollutes the earth and it makes it harder for animals to live and it pollutes our air for every thingto breathe
0	because petrol pullots the enviroment and kills turles and i like turtles
0	because petrol ruins our ozone layer and by 2050 we would probably have no layer to protec us from the suns rays.
3	because petrol stations will go bankrupt and eletric cars cant tow horse trucks
0	Because petrol/diesel cars are bad and I think it'll be really cool to see everyone driving around in electric cars.
0	because petroll is bad for the enviroment
1	because politians and business will need to work together to make this possible and the dont know howto do that well.
1	Because pollution is bad and petrol cars aren't exactly good
0	Because reasons that should be obvious. we only get one earth. its time we started to respect her.
0	because save the planet. I would like to have a future pls and ty
1	Because Some car componys don't care
0	Because some people in the world actually try to help our enviroment but some people litter and hurt our native animals on purpose. Lets work tegether please!! :)
2	because t is what it is
2	because th enviroment will already have taken a toll from the petrol cars
0	because thats good for our planet
0	because thay use too much petrol
0	because the air will b filled withless harmfull toxins
0	because the air will be fresh
0	Because the Air will be fresh to breath.
3	because the cars would not be able to drive
1	because the chances of it happening are low but would have a good outcome
0	because the earth is dying :)
0	because the earth will be better with out a poluted planet
0	because the end of humanity would be less than ideal
0	because the environment would not be endagered
0	because the gas coming from the cars are toxic
3	because the goverment would needto have a buybacksystem like the semi auto gun buyback bt as thre are more petrol cars than AR-15s itwould cost alot
0	because the invermint would bebetter. and the sea birds wouldint have oil on them.
1	because the more petrolwe invest into our society the more we will endanger the oceanlife as well as polluting our air. Without air our ives will be endangered so we need to take action in order to save our future society.
4	because the motorsport industry will die
4	because the nw earthquake is dumb as ow and this qustion thingyis dunb af to yellprobs only seak one language
0	Because the oil is harmful for the ecology and will apperently end as any fossil. The humanity needs to save and protect our planet by overthinking the ways we use its sources.
0	because the petrol is relley bad for the peoplel
0	because the planet is more important than my convenience
1	because the planets future depends on us changing our ways
0	because the way we get fuel disrups the eco system
3	because the world is going to die
0	because the world isin need of change from gas to electic
1	because the world needs to be cleaned up but we need to take first steps before doing so.
1	because the world will run out of fossil fuels and we need to protect the planet
0	because the world would be less polluted.
1	because the younger generations will have to put up withbad pollution.climate change is coming and buy the time our generation now is dead the younger will have to deal with the problems.
1	Because then global warming will slow - almost - to a holt.
0	because then it means less pollution in the air for our natrual envirnoment.
0	because then my nieghbours cars wont be as noisy
1	because then the world can be a better place and the enviroment will be ceaner and so will our oxygen.
1	because then there will be less air pollution and hopefully less global  warming
0	because then there will be less carbon dioxide in the air which will also stop global warming.
1	because then there won't be so bad things happening to our enviroment!!!! #gogreen
0	because then they will stop killing the world
0	because then we can grow more nature
0	because then we wouldnt have so much globalwarming and pollution
3	because then you wont be able to drive in town
1	Because there are so many of them the roads now
3	because there endanger to the envoirment
0	because there is other option than carbon based engines
1	because there will be more electric cars
3	BECAUSE THERE WILL BE NO CARS
0	Because there will be no polluted air
0	because there willbe alot less pollution and it will be better for the environment
4	because there wont be economic alternatives by then
0	because there won't be globel  warming
0	because there would be no trafic
0	because thereshould be alternatives to fossil fule sue
3	because theworst effects will be felt by those without the money to make the transition
2	because they are bad for the earth
0	because they are bad for the planet
0	because they are bad for the plant
0	because they are better cars to drive...and hugely beter for the environment
1	because they are damaging our enviroment
0	because they are killing the invierment
0	because they are ruining earth and there is only one earth for us to live on.And also i think that we have to ban them to save humans and the planet
0	because they are ruining our world
3	because they create a lot of climit change
0	because they emit co2 and so they are making more gases that cntribute to global warming which means our planet will have irreversal damaga
0	Because they have to be banned to save our planet.
1	because they help global warming and polution
1	because they polluiet the enviroment and that is bad for nature and animals and us
2	because they pollutte bt trvell longer than electric cars
0	because they release carbon dioxide in our environment and it's bad for our planet
1	because they should be as they are bad for the environment
1	because they use renewable energy  not carbon producing fuel
1	because they use too much petrol
0	Because they're bad for the environment. I think we need to have a lot more electric vehicles than we've got at the moment!
0	because this is a cool feat in science and is an important step insolving this climate disaster
1	because this is amazing and people wuld love it
0	because this is the best thing in the world
1	because this would be an important step in the future of our world
3	because to me we are burning so many carbon emmissions that a some point i believe that it is irreversable. at the rate we are going there will be so much carbon dioxide that we cannot reverse. since so much carbon is in the air the plants can only take so much  that it will die. we must have many people contribute to the saving of the planet for it to take effect
0	because we are all going to burn otherwise. or drown.
3	Because we are being severely affected by gobal waming and this is an absolute must.
0	because we are emitting to much CO2
4	because we are harming the earth
1	because we are having lots of petrol carwe are damaging the ozone layer we will finally realize what we have done and take action
1	because we are killing our world
1	Because we are killing the planet and there are so many better ways to travel.
1	because we can hopefully stop climate change.
0	because we can make sure that our future generation can enjoyall the greens around like we do now and before:)
3	because we can not go any where
1	because we can power vehicles with renewable energy sources
0	because we can stop tearing upPapatuanuku
1	because we cant keep on theway we are and we all need to make changes
0	because we do not waste engry
0	BECAUSE WE DONT HAVE TO PAY MONEY AND CARS WILLDRIVE THEMSELFS.
4	because we had to goaway from the  fossil
0	because we have to save our plnet for future generations
0	because we have too many petrol cars and they are poluting the eco system.
1	Because we live in an amazing world and should do all we can to protect it
0	because we might avoid a climate catastrophe just in time
4	because we need an alternative that still allows us to move around  in rural areas without major delays waitingto be recharged
0	because we need other things to move faster
1	because we need t chageourir is being poulotted
1	Because we need to act now
0	BECAUSE WE NEED TO BE KIND TO THE EARTH
0	Because we need to do all we can to stop climate change. Periodt.
1	because we need to do better for our children
1	because we need to figure out a way to make a synthetic fue l to use instead of afossil fuel that will likely be gone in 200 years and to get it creates harmful enviroments for all living things.
0	because we need to get carbon emissions under control
0	because we need to have an alternative  idea plans and ways
0	because we need to leave the oil in the ground
1	because we need to legislate first sometimes.
0	because we need to look after our environment more.
0	because we need to make change right now or we wont have a world to live in
0	because we need to start caring for theenvironment
0	because we need to stop polutting our  planet and take care of papatuanuku
1	Because we need to take action ASAP
1	because we need to take care of our planet
1	because we only have one earth. we need to look after it and ensure it survives
1	because we should stop harming the earth
0	because we should travel in spaceships insteaddddd
0	because we will have less polution
0	BECAUSE WE WONT HAVE TO PAY MONEY AND WE COULD GET SELF DRIVE CARS
1	because we'll have a better chance in the future for keeipng the planet cleaner than it is now
3	because withoutwpetrol cars wont ride and what if they have an accident!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3	because YOU COULD KILL WILD LIFE
1	becausea new futur is ahead of us.so many challenges to face
3	becausep eople are so scared of change
0	becausethen my technology wont be run by oil
0	becausewe needtofind resources  thatcaresustainable and clean
3	becouse i do not feel safe
0	becouse i havent seen every thing here
0	becuase it will be better for the enviroment
1	becuasewe will have come up with an eco friendly way to get rid of the cars and finea good eco friendly replacement first
0	becuse petrol cars pollute the air
3	becuse should be gone a long time ago.
0	becuse we hvesuxh easy acess to eletric options. it seems silly to waste a resource when wedont need to
2	best combination of fuel econmy as well as eco friendy in mining process
0	best to move by public transport. helping together
0	Better air quality and more sustainable transport options.
0	better environmental and health outcomes.  public transport that utilizes renewable resources for energy will be ideal .
1	Better for earth and the future generations
1	better for environment and i love t#####
1	better for environment but we need time to replace and find alternatives
1	better for environment if battery production can be made cleaner
0	better for the environment to stop using fossil fuels
0	better for the environment. go tesla!! elon musk!!!
0	better for the environment. we are in an evolving world therefore everything regarding our health safety and future should be cnsoidered when making decisions about the future of our environment
0	better fr env and so good to drive
0	better options of clear energy sources are abundantly available out there. why do we keep choosing the dirty ones????
0	better public transport for wellington  . less emmissions
1	better solutions than petrol can be found
0	better tech at that point to make that possible
1	BI THINK THEY SHOULD BE BAND BECAUSE CARS SMOKE ARE BREAKING THE OZONE LAYER
1	big ask and not  far away
1	big corporations halt change for money
1	big oil companies will never let  it happen
0	Biking or walking or electric cars is good! please dont use petrol cars.
0	birds will die out because of petrol
2	blah blah blah. sorry areyou still tlking
1	burning fossilfuels is destroying nature as we know it. The sooner petrol is banned the better!
1	burning of fossil fuels is killing our world
1	burning petrol releases co2 which causes the earth to heat up and id rather we not destroy the planet and all life
1	but electric cars are not the answer
1	but the agriculture is larger problem here in NZ... You should reduce it
1	But will electric cars be powered by coal?
1	by the time hopefully battery technology has improved and more clean energy is produced
1	by then we should have sustainable transport options
0	Cabon missons haeaready caused a significant impact on the Earth and instead of taking action we haveignoredthe problem. Many species are endangred because of this.
0	can u find me a plumber
1	can we make the commitment and get consensus
0	cant wait to save the world one electric car at a time!!!!!!!!!!!
0	cant wait to use boats on the road
2	car are there anyway and there are other peoplewho care about it more than me
1	car crashes cause a significant proportion of fatalities and injuries in nz and around the world. humans are impatient and poor drivers who do not take driving seriously enough to pay attention or take enough care on the road. nzers rely on cars to much. bikes and public transport should be invested in. and stop hating cyclists at least they are not polluting the environment
3	car enthusists should be able to drive petrol cars in the weekend
2	car will be replaced. theyneed to do this sooner than 2030
1	carbon dioxide levels are wack. we shold do soething about that shit
3	Carbon tax rather than ban particular uses of carbon for an efficient and economical way to reduce emissions
0	Cars and manufacturing them are one of the leading greenhouse gas producers.
0	cars are a huge factor contributing to our emissions output . and id like to see our emissions reduced
0	Cars are a neccessity for a lot of people. but its hurting the planet. reducing carbon footprint is a B I G    Y E S
0	cars are bad 4 the environment
2	cars are cool and that but idk i just dont rlli give a
0	cars are literaly poisoning our planet along with many other things. they are slowly poisoning us too! I Can't wait for these things to be gone.
0	cars are too expensive and stinky
0	Cars contribute to our ghg emissions and wrsen public health through air pollution and non communicable diseases like heart disease diabetes and cancer
0	Cars create a bad society. We value vehicles more than people. V excited for this to change!
0	cars gas has broke the ozone leyer and I am exited about that
1	cars generate so many harmful emissions
0	cars have given autonomy but are also a large contributor to obesity injury polution and enviromental damage
0	cars kill people. humans are bad drivers. nzers need to stop being so reliant on cars
0	cars make an enormous impact in carbon emissions. we have ways of powering them without using petrol. so we shoud get rid of them.
0	cars r bad 4 the enviroment no fuel powered vehicles should exist.
1	cars should be used less .
4	cars should not be banned because people need to get to places every day. most people are very busy needing to go to the city and out of town which means that if theres no cars then wewould hav to walk and that would take a long time and you would be tired
0	cars that use petrol cause to much polution and damage the enviroment.  Do you really want  no  animals around  because of extinktion
2	case my name is zack and i suck ass
1	cause fossilfuels are a limted resource which means cant depend on it for long
0	cause i am ready to see exciting things
0	cause i care about our earth
0	cause i want to live long enough to fall in love
2	cause nz is behind and petrol costsnz and arm and a leg
0	cause people will see and realise that how much it damages the enviroment an ocean worldwide
0	cause petrol is bad for the enviroment
1	cause petrol isbad for the environment
1	cause you have to take oil from the earth.
1	ceaner fuels are already available and can be encoraged
3	challenge to lower income families to change vehicles especially in rural areas
0	chance to stop climate chage for future generations to enjoy our planet
0	change can be frightening but imagine the potential for a different life
0	change from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources
1	change is possible. i am hopefull humans will do the right thing!
1	change needs to be partially imposed otherwise change wont come quickly enough.  prices will need to comedown for alternatives
1	change that moves in a positive direction is goreat
1	changes have been made in the past to protect today and now changes must me made to protect tomorrow
0	cheap to run and a cleaner environment
3	child slave labour is used in making electic car batteries. They get sent in to mines. :(
0	children of the future will be disgusted it has taken so long
0	choose to change needed before we will have no choice that will bring chaos
3	christchurch doesnt have a reliable public transport system.
0	cities will be so much more pleasant without polluting petrol cars around.
1	citys should be designed for walking
0	clean air. no nasty smelly dirtypollutants
0	clean green environment to get there one has to chnge poples mindset and way of live
0	clean technologies and new transportation solutions are on the way
0	cleaner air and a step towards fighting climate change
0	cleaner cheaper and renewable is agood way forward
0	Climare change is happening and we need to change the way we live.
3	climate change  is fraudulent science. plastic is a much bigger problem
0	climate change action isessential to avoid major global ecosystem cllapse
1	Climate change is a threat to our planet and our lives. Anything that can be done to stop climate change is a good thing. However; we can only inspire real change;when everyone wants to come on board. For that we need real alternatives; both in public transport as well as in innovations for example regarding electric cars. I am hopeful that we will find those alternatives and change our behaviour to a more climate and planet friendly way.
1	climate change is bad and should not be real.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1	Climate change is the biggest threat to humanity and as long as petrol cars are around carbon emissions will continue to rise. Banning petrol cars gives me hope for the future. it is time to show our planet the aroha it deserves
0	Climate change threatens everything weve built  - and cars seperate us from one another.
0	Companys like Tesla are leading the way for innovation in clean renewable energy and transport. its becoming more popular and common
4	considering how hardthe gun buy back is going to be.imagie buying back the cars.
0	cos car no good forsk ygoextinct
1	cos climate change will kill us all
1	cos fossil fuel is running out
1	cos i dontdrive so all my mates wont call me out any more
1	cos i want to make the world a better place
0	cos its urgent and we can do it easily
1	cos thats the wayit should be
1	cos the world is doomed if we use petol cars
0	cos then we wont diebut still probs will
1	cost competitive technology needs to be available to the general publicas well as an efficient power source
3	cost of replacing my petrol car if i had one
1	costs to purchase and maintenance could be inaccessible for low income eaning families
0	coupld with driverless on call vehicals there will be both a reduction in greenhouse cases and a reduction in wasteful transport resources
2	coz i haveagood car on gas power bill on overhand no thank u
0	current way of living is not sustainable - we need to think in terms of centuries and millenia not decades
0	Cus gas is bad for the atnusfare
1	cuz elon is cool and smexy
2	cuz i dont care becaue my name is rosa
1	cuz it wont happen but i want it to
0	Cuz we can do better than fossil fuel
0	decreasing cars that produce gas instead of electricity will help the earth and provide a better enviromental outcome for the earth and climate change
1	dercease  or end use of fossil fuels
1	DID YOU KNOW THAT CATS ARE AWESOME?! i am 10 yrs old i also have a lot more supererior intelegence than what i have written down here                                PS I LOVE CATS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1	do our bit to strive for clean air
1	do we have the tecnology yet to completely relace petrol cars?
2	does it really matter? theworld will be destroy and will go to shit eitherway
4	dont ban petrol cars. its stupid
2	dont kow cus i a m dunb
0	dont make global warming then floods willhappen
0	Don't want the world to be polluted.
1	doubt it will happen butwe can pray. lmao jesus cant help us.
0	e hea ana ou he ao hurihuri mo oku nei moko
0	EARTH does not even have the resources to build renewable energytech to sustain us. The only viable option is to followa simpler way of living. We need to move on from fossil fuels for good
1	earth is dying and we will to
3	eather way if you have elctrik cars or petrol cars its still the same because where are you going to put the batteries from the electrik cars?
1	Ecconomic advantage when energy sources are renewable.
1	education will ensure our society generally will realise this must hapen
2	eh is what it is each to their own but how will we scoot scoot
2	either way isfne by me ay
0	electic cars are a better idea
1	electolicity cars are much better for the emvironment
3	electric  cars are not the answer. going to need more dams .and that might not be a good thing
0	electric and new tech is the way to go. lets have incentives!
0	electric car are way more efficient than ice. even considering manufacturing of all the components and recycling. batterie technologie will for the better with mass production. less pollution in the end less noise. more fun more reliability... lets throw those old petrol car away !
3	electric car is the new problem
3	electric car stlil pollute more than petrol cars to this day ... the economic cost is to important h
4	electric cars  dnt sound fuckinmean tho ay
1	electric cars alternative are still expensive
3	Electric cars and the infrastructure is expensive. A goal of 2030 will put  the cost of a car out of reach of ordinary and low income families
0	Electric cars are almost affordable - if govt subsides EVs and bans petrol cars we could be doing a lot for the environment, but this will push the grid to its limit so more investment needed nationally to increase our reliance on and output of renewable energy sources.
4	electric cars are bad firthe enviromen too
1	electric cars are better than diesel or petrol but they still cause congestion pollution from tyres abd brakes.  Let's have more walking cycling and public transport!
0	electric cars are cheap and clean
3	electric cars are dangerous. lipo batteries can explode very easily in a crash. we need better technoloy before we change to electric.
1	electric cars are envionmentally friendly and energy effecient.  I hopeful that they will become affordable for all New Zealanders
4	electric cars are exciting to drive
1	electric cars are expensive. not sure how long will it take to bang petrol cars.but totaly agree we should bangthem
0	electric cars are far more enjoyable to drive. cheaper to use and thenext step to help reduce global warming
4	electric cars are good but our power grid wont handle the extra load without relying on coal generated electricy
1	electric cars are improvibg day by dy
1	electric cars are just as good for getting from a to bandbtter for the environment.  i think there should be a way to convert or dispensate classic cars though
0	Electric cars are lower maintenance more efficient and greener
1	Electric cars are much better for the environment
0	electric cars are not only green they are super fun to drive.
1	electric cars are still to be fully proven. test show they can do as nuch damage as petrol cars at present
1	Electric cars are the future. Thēy ārē cheaper to run and more economic.
1	electric cars are the way of the future :)  you wouldnt screw your mum
0	electric cars are too expensive they should be subsidised
3	electric cars are very expensive and i dont know if they will be as good as petrol cars ca at the same price
4	electric cars cost at least tice as much petrol cars.
0	electric cars do the same thing with a much smaller carbon footprint. we just need to work on bringing the cost down to tempt more people
1	electric cars have progressed so far they shoud no longer be needed. on the assumption the electricl poweris sustainly obtained
1	electric cars look to be more affordable and practicle
1	electric cars r getting more and more common so hopefully they become cheaper and more people buy them. :)
3	electric cars require batteries that will be dumped after their use. this will create more pollution in the land that carbon emissions
0	electric cars rock....quieter and faster. less polluting
1	Electric cars should be subsidised like in China.
0	electric cars should bemuch more competitively  priced. It would be good to have electric cars as vans and fleet cars.They could easily charge at night.
2	electric cars still usecoal from the grid
0	electric cars still work as well as petrol
0	electric cars use better energy sourses and require more consideration before use
1	electric cars will be the norm.quiet efficient and safe
0	electric cars will be way faster!!
0	electric cars will help to heal the enviroment
1	electric cars willhopefully be in wide circulation by then
1	electric cars would need to become more affordable. otherwise public transport to the outter wellington suburbs will need to be imporved.
0	electric carsare cheaper to run and long term will make nz sustainable
3	electric carsare stillso unaffordable for many
0	electric is the future. better in every way!
0	electric is the way of the future
0	electric is the way to go
0	electric is totally the way to go
4	electric magnectic radiation is worse for the earth ban five g too
4	electric ones arebt gonna do the job. towing trailers etc.
0	electric sef driving cars arethe way of the future. Theywill protect our environment
1	Electric tech is here and betterfor the future
0	Electric vehicles are faster than  petrol cars
0	electric vehicles are just as cool if not cooler thanregular cars. as well as being better forthe environment.
0	Electric vehicles are the best solution for our environment AND economy
1	Electric would be so much better for our environment. NZ could truely be green!
3	electrical car cheap to run but waste more in production. AND battery recycling is another big issue
1	electrical car will become mainstream leaving petrol cars in the past. his will make our enviroment better
3	electricity car is really more green and keeping ecosystem than petrol car?
1	electricity is currently to expensive  hopefully will all have solarpower toput into grid to enable this to occur
1	electricity is somthing we will have to look into. or how do we power cars to go the distance?
0	electricity is the future. save the planet
1	electronic cars are more environmental friendly
1	elon musk and the rise of AI
0	elon musk is hell mad guy
1	emissions are dangerous. petrolium extraction inthe seas and technology for this not helpful fr our future word
0	enviroment protection is very very  important
1	environmental protection and for the sake of our prospective future
0	Ev are here now.they are cheaper to run so make commercial sense now
1	EV is a great idea for the futur
2	ev isnt the future. its as bad for the environment as petrol. I'll be happy when hydrogen is mastered.
3	ev vehicle production ispolluting and thre is no recycling of baterries
0	every one should have an electrc car they are better for the advirment
4	every thing with caution _ i feel things lie petrol based motorsports should not be banned.
2	everyone  needs a car to get around
0	everyone is blinded by the corporations that run this measly excuse for a society. we have been slaves to the goldsmiths since the 1800s. this is a joke to think petrol is a nything other than a means of sapping our resources and money. henry ford developed a water fuel cell that was functional in the 1950s but was destroyed because it goes against the petrolium and oil giants. we need to escape this lie we have been taught since primary and wake up.
0	Evs are amazing.we hae had one for a few years now it aparently its amaing to drive so I'm all for it
0	evs are the way to go
3	EVs full life incl mining the batteries are worse fir the world than petrol
4	evs shiftthe problems but dont change them
0	excited but public transport needs to be affordable
0	Excited for my birthday  this month
0	excited for our environment and the chnge of direction and thinking it means we have made as the human race. means my grandkids might have shot at a hopeful future
0	excited. banning wont be necessary when ev become cheaper and better.instead slowly increase fuel tax.
0	exciting times ahead BREXIT and that
3	feels as though only young people actively care about climate change
0	fewer cars  means more people in smaler spaces
1	fighting climate change is one of the biggest tasks of our time
0	finally people are starting to make changes
4	find alternative fuels. you cant expect a population full of elecrtic cars to not be powered by a huge global destroying powerscource
0	fir too long we have abused the earth and thepeople n it .
0	first time in the new bit
0	FIRST WE NEED ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORT MORE AVAILABLE. ESPECIALLY FOR LOW INCOME RESIDENTS
4	Focus on the factories and what they are creating with plastics
0	for  a world free of pollution with people benefitting from alernative transport
1	for  more clear air and less fast life
1	for alternative sustainable energy for future gens. whatever is needed for the planet and life on and around.... how else?
1	for my grandchildren and their children to enjoy the country as we know it now.
0	for one we have so many different alternatives to petrol now. Electric cars are definitly a great alternative as producin the electricity neededcould b done via solar panels. which produces energy mre efficiently and sustainably.
0	for our over night zoo trip
0	For our sake and all other beings on this planet we must make a change
1	for this to happen the way the govt spent money and invested would need to completely change. i am hopeful for this as it is the only way to try to save our future
1	For too many years now people have not thought about the impact the overuse of cars has had on our environment. It is about time that we change that.
0	fora country with abundant renewable energy and a will to change this is very possible.
4	formula 1 is better than E1  also the nuclear batteries used freectic cars are more harmful than emissions rels.eased by petrol run vechiles
4	fortnite season 10 didnt live up to the hype
0	fosil fuels need to be eliminated
1	fossil fuel cars need to go
0	FOSSIL FUEL EMISSIONS NEED TO STOP
0	fossil fuel is dirty and oldfashioned
1	Fossil fuel is one of the main reasons of environmental pollution. The future alternative vehicle would be able to decrease the amount of CO2 emission.
0	fossil fuel is the big beeeeeeg bad
0	Fossil fuels are a danger to humanity.
0	Fossil fuels are a dirty relic of the past. We can do better.
0	fossil fuels are an evironmental issue and we should remove our dependency on them as soon as possible
0	Fossil Fuels are bad for our enviroment and we should not use them
0	fossil fuels are bad for our environmemt
0	fossil fuels are depleting and we need to think about clean renewable energy
4	fossil fuels are the lesser harm than all the effort that goes into making single use battery packs for electric cars that cant be recycled. also electricity is not able to do the work that fossil fuel powered machinery can do
0	fossil fuels cause many issues around health geopoloitical conflicts and environmental harm in addition to climate change. time to ditch this old fossil fuel technology.
0	fossil fuels need to stay in the ground! we have many opportunities for renewable energy cars and betterpublic transport
0	fossil fuels should make way for sustainable alternatives
0	fossil fuels should not be used
1	fossil fuels should stay in the ground like they should be
0	fossil fuels will run out one day and I'd rather the earh not die
0	Foward progress o a healthier and btter future. Fossil fuels suck.
4	fuck ur electric trash. turbo spooly boiis and brmm brmm everyay mofo
3	fudge that fudge out of that fudging fudge
1	Fuel emissions are a significant contributor to our currebt global warming crisis (about 20 perent).
0	fuel is tooo expensive.  stop damaging the environment
0	Future generations will be amazed that we still used them now when we dont need to and knowhow much damage they cause
0	future mobility should be clean to get a similary clean future.that is chance for the environment society and even for the economy
0	future proofing our world for our children and grandchildren
1	gas is bad for the air
0	gas is killign our planet. it is a contributor to global warming. clean it while we still can
3	gas will poisen and make us die.
0	george ##### is better then ##### ####
0	george is the bestneed to get 770000 subs follow #### ####
1	get rid of cars all together
4	get the fuck out of here
3	gettibg rid i cars is bad for the environment as much as petrol. removing mass amounts of metal and etc
0	gettng rid of fossilfuels asfast as possible might save our beautiful planet.
0	Gives me hope that there may be a safe place to live for my yung daughters
0	global climate change is real o i fear for the worl my grandsons will inherit
0	GLOBAL WARMING and cause petrol is bad for the enviroment
0	global warming is happening and beforewe know it we are going to be living in one giant desert.
0	global warming will kill us otherwise
0	go public transport bike walk for a better lifestyle
1	gonna help to enviroment and to us as humans because more people could start use a bikes instead:-)
1	good for atmosphere but dont know about full impact on environment of alternatives e.g electric batterydisposal hydro affect on climate. also transition cost and liberties of cost and choice.
1	good for environment and less gas pollouted air
0	good for everyone because we have electroniccars and this is the future
0	good for the environment. nz leading the way and the rest will follow!
2	good idea but im v skeptical
1	Good idea but lets see if it happens
1	good idea but the technology is too expensive at the moment
1	good idea but will require electricity production to incrase and it must be from green source or else we would still be contributing to green house gases
1	good idea for new vehicles however older vehxiles should be hased out more gradually
3	good luck. big oil is too profitable
1	good step towards reversing global warming
0	good thing to make less rejections in general for human beings and their activities
0	good way to provide fuel. love our electric car.
1	got to keep the fossil fuels in the hole
4	gotta get home from the pub
3	gov too slw to react and esabish facilities to encourage this
0	government shall subsidise ev owners like norway so that we could have more choices on ev types for example tesla. electric cars could save our future we have a nissan leaf and we like it.
1	Government should introduce more fast electric trains around the country instead of usiing cars on the road causing so many accidents and polution at the sametime.
1	great aspiration but will we adapt?
0	great but electric cars need to be more affordable
1	great goal not sure of impact on our quality of life.  really hope we can achieve and that impact of humans reduced as opposed to substituted for something more harmful.  It seems we humans like to consume and want everyone else to change expect for us
1	great idea but ensure electricity is  affordable and available to everyone
4	green house gas emmisions in N.Z. is low and not threatening our environment compare to other countries in the world. Our economy is tiny compare compare with other nations in the world . So this natural resources is a blessing to our nations.
0	green is clean. oil and gas are mean
0	greenhouse gas emissions have and continue to change our climate. better technology is available
0	greenhouse gases and carbon emissions are killing our planet
0	h will i get to work
4	ha ha ha hee hee hee im a lughing gnme adyoucant catchme
0	happy because its cool and i learnt new things and stuff
0	have seen polutions destructon in the
1	have to do something to save the planet
2	heck the earth papa elon will be our jesus
1	hello can you see me I am a nice women and I love Tē pāpā
0	hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello kell hell hell hell heck
0	hello my name is ava i am wering a hat
1	help make nz a better place to live
1	help preserve the planet and use more carpooling
1	help the earth- it will give us and animals a chance
0	helping the enviroment and keeping the air clean
0	hi haha its me robloxian oheah and i am hackingright now u r brats
4	hi i am a great singer from 3D
0	hi im lucas i like this place i whant to live hear
2	hi little children i know where you live and i will  find you ha ha ha including mahi luis mia and lila
2	HI ### #### #### ####### AND #### I KNOW WHERE YOU LIVE
0	HIGH TIME WE DO SOMETHING ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
1	hope is everythng ..with out hope how can youhave a future... x
1	hope they wont be banned rather the alternatives will be better
1	hopeful but until oil exploration really stops and oil runs out people will always buy petrol cars
1	hopeful for the future of the planet
1	hopeful it will be a reality but know that not enough people in higher power care enough to make it happen
1	Hopeful it wont be too late....
1	Hopeful that in the future we could find alternative ways of fuel that is healthy and good for mother nature. Humans have been given a responsibility of higher intelligence of this earth to take care of it.
1	hopeful that this will create positive change and potential
1	hopeful thatt he technology is in place to make it achievable
1	hopefully electric and hybrid cars will be affordable for everyone by this point
1	Hopefully it does happen. Carbonemissions aren't very cool aye
1	hopefully it will happen soon enough to make as big an impact on global warming as possible
1	Hopefully the mindset of all Kiwis can change so that we can live in a cleaner safer and long lasting Aotearoa.
1	hopefully we an make more positiv sustaiable choices
1	hopefully we can use renwable energy to power everything... including transport
1	hopefully we will have a less poluted planet.
1	hopfully and hopllyby the time we ha alternative cleanway to generate engery
3	HOW ARE U PEOPLENOT CARING BOUT THIS PROBLEM THATWILL AFFECT ALL SOMEDAY
3	how are we going to move around
0	how are we going to survive ifwe dont take action?
3	how do you make electricity in a sustainable way
4	how elce r we going  to destry earth
0	How much of our city space is dedicated to cars? tooooo much lol
4	how will i get my astn martin lookin freshhh
4	how will i get to work? wālk?...
3	How will we work to curve a petroleum driven economy towards eco friendly sustainability
1	hppy tat no gas from petrol cars will be in the air we breath
1	Huge energy is wasted through ineficiencies ofinternal combustion engines.
1	human industry wull be the death ofthe planet and us all
0	humanity is finding a way forward
0	humans are an incredibly innovative species and i am excited to witness the amazing solutions we can find when we focus on savig our planet instead of our own greed.
3	humans are too selfish to protect our environment
2	humans have too many sins to repent forand must be cleansed by the holy hellfire of judgement that is the hand of god
1	humans should have been much much smarter about the pollution we have caused because it is a cheper shortterm option.
3	hunting is good because we need to eat&be healthly
2	HYBRID CARS ARE PRETTY COOL THO
1	hybrid cars are the future and we need to use sustainable energy way more than we currently do
1	Hydro engines exist and have almost no impacts on the enviroment. To bad all politians bend towards the demands of major oil industries! HYDO ENERGY IS THE FUTURE!!
0	Hydrogen car technoloy is good developed today. Under certain conditions it is even saver than petrol.
0	hydrogen cells will be ur future fuel
0	i   worried cos this worldis fucked
0	i  am excited about electric cars and having better public transport options. invest now for my future
0	I  am so so so so excited because the poler bears will get back theirsnow and there will be homes for so many animals
3	I  am worried because if all cars are electric ther might notbe enough for  your every day needs
1	i  dont want the earth to die
2	i  eat cheese  so  no  worry
1	i  feel this because i hope itll work but it mite not
0	I  hope that they are banned sooner but its still great
3	i  think  cars  are  polluting  the  world.
4	I  think  that it is not  good.
1	i  think its a good ide and we need to start doing something sbout climatechange
1	i  think renewable energy is a better one
1	i  think that petrolcars should be BANNED because the green house gas they produce is harmfull to the enviroment . And worried because electriccars are very pricy at the moment and  they could still be pricy then.
1	I  think that the planet is more important than getting around the city in comfort.
1	i  think that this is a good idea so we can help stop climate change. i really want to stop climate change because when i grow up i dont want earth to be ruined.
4	I  thinki its silly because peps need to go places
0	i  want aotearoa and the world to be a safe beautiful place where peoplre and nature thrive
0	i actually dont fully agree with this. i thinkthatpetrol cars should be banned in   2023 at the max. we have climate emergency and even though transportation is not the main cause of this it still needs to stop asap
1	I agree more needs to be done to reduce carbon emissions. However, 2030 seems like a really short timespan to build the infrastructure for electric vehicles and better public transport. Without it the people who will suffer the most are the poorer people in New Zealand who won't be able to afford expensive, new, petrol-free vehicles.
4	I agree with better/alternative fuels but I will always disagree with a law to ban anything. That is not practical. A free market will always provide a better solution.
0	i am  Excited for my sisters Birthday.
4	i am a farmer from the wop wops and ilike thesmell of petrolon my quadbike
1	I am a wind energy analyst so it would be good for buisness... and the planet
1	i am afraid there is too much business around petrol to stop using it all of sudden... but i do sincerely hope we will do it. we should think about what kind of world we are leaving to our children...
4	i am angry that someonestarted to hunt
0	I am assuming that your "petrol cars" in the question actually means "petrol and diesel" and we are talking about all new cars, buses and trucks. We need to change to a zero carbon economy and the sooner we do it the better. An individual person doesn't have much control over this sort of thing; businesses obviously want to make money; so by having legislation like this, everyone is pushed along in the right direction. It is great to see the proliferation of hybrid cars these days, and the emergence of really practical electric cars. Bring it on!
1	i am aware of human  frailties!
0	i am beta liberal so i love things for inferior males
3	i am concerned that if we go to vehicles which are quiter they will be too quite for cyclists or pedestrians to hear
0	i am excited beacause its my first time i'v been to the event
0	I am excited because feul emmisions are taking toll on the climate and I am sure that banning petrol cars will help agreat deal.
0	I am excited because no cars that have petrol will be driving so animal and plant species willnot be endangered
0	i am excited because this is my first time here
0	i am excited because we do notneed to go to the petrol station as much and it will be good for the world.
0	i am exited because its efectingour life and we may not be able to last as long
0	i am exited because ofthe amount polution that gets into the world every day
1	i am hope full because  i wat this to stop
1	I am hopeful about this because I think that it would not effect the wildlifeas much.
0	i am hopeful because i have friends
1	i am hopeful because we are doing more for the newer generation so thatwe can have a good future
1	I am hopeful for greenhouse gas emmissions to be reduced but at the same time unhappy that although animal agriculture creates more it is rarely discussed
0	I am hopeful for mass public transit. Also what Claude said about decisionmaking.
1	i am hopeful that humankind realise before its too late that we need to look after our planet and that we need to start now. i am also hopeful that we can continue to innovate and find new alternatives to processes that are causing some of the damage
1	i am hopeful that i will have a future in a world that cares about its environment
1	i am hopeful that people are taking action. however banning petrol cars will do more damage than good becausewe will have 3 million petrol cars with no where to put them. there will be a lot of waste to deal with. we should focus on bigger issues like reducng methane production
1	I AM HOPEFUL THAT PEOPLE WILL USE ELECTRIC CARS BECAUSE PETROL CARS CREATE AIR POLLUTION
1	i am hopeful that they will come and help the inviroment
1	I am hopeful that this will bea fun experience!
4	i am just angry.my name Jeff.
1	I am little unsure about how we will get there. However I am still hopeful it will make a positive impact. :)
0	I am looking forward to living in a world where human are able to live happily and still respect Gaia.
1	I am only hopeful  because of big business they may have greater control due to putting pressure on the govt rather than doing the right thing for the environmnet.
4	I am rich so dont care
1	i am sure we can find an alternative renewvable energy source. petrol is very slowly renewable and not healthy for our environment. i am loking forward future affordable electic cars!!!
3	i am worried beacuse the birds are dining and w need to halp them
3	i am worried because im not sure if itwill happen in time
3	i am worried because with the petrol t cant make ur world any better
0	i amictsitid because some of the birds are geeting saved
1	i believe that petrol cars are harmful to aquatic life and land animals also ME LOVE CATS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
0	I believe that petrol cars should banned by 2030 as our environment can not handle the growing pollution .  Cars are a major contributer to climate change and are used each and everyday by millions of people;  think what this is doing to our envirnment everyday?
1	i believe that we can collabate as a nation to make a change in the way that we travel.
0	i can ride my bike safely
3	i cant afford to buy a hybrid or electric car xD
4	i cant drive my ferari anylonger
0	i cant wait. ka haere matou tonu
1	I' d like it to happen but I do not think it will get passed
4	i dnt want to use public transport to getaround
2	i do not now anything about cars
1	i do not really care abut it but i know this is more important
1	i don t believe it will be acheived but if it happens it would be great
2	I DONT BELIEVE THAT IS LIKELY TO HAPPEN.
4	I don't believe there is a viable alternative economically. Read The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels.
2	i dont care about the environment but i care about my wife
2	I DONT CARE ABOUT ZIYA LIFE BEACUSE YOU DONT HAVE ONE
2	i dont care because ill be dead soon anyway
2	i dont care ed sheeran ft justin beiber
2	i dont care you know about that
0	i dont drives so feel less challenged by this
2	i dont know enough about it to decide
3	i dont know here t start
0	I don't know if I will have children but I'd like something of this beautiful planet to be left.
4	i dont like to go slo
3	i dont like walking. keep these kars
3	i dont see a realistic alternative being made available for all current petrol car owners within just 10 years
1	i dont see any other way tht we could savetheplanet. if we cant make big chang es ino u r lifestyle for the right reasons then we wonteven have a world to live in...
0	I dont see why some silly people try to DESTROY our planet so if eletric cars come it will be heaps better for our enviroment.
3	i dont thibk it will happen. people rely on them too much or dont care enough
3	I dont think it can happen without subsidies on alternative private vehicles
1	i dont think itshould be baned but just go u
1	I don't think this is ambicious enough
0	I don't think we have a choice -  we just have to stop using petrol and start working on alternatives.   Now.
0	i don't think we have a choice at this point.
1	i dont think wecan achieve it
3	i dont wanna walk everywhere  and public transport suckks.
0	i dont want polar bears to go extinct
3	i dont want to breathe in the gas  from cars cause i dont want to die
3	i dont want to burn alive in a portable incinerator like tesla
0	i dont want to die  and climate   change
3	i dont want tobreathe in the gas because i dont  want to die
0	i dontwant my time set on studybg to get wasted
0	I DONTWANT TO KILL THE ISLAND
0	i drink petrol so my dog hvhlkhdsuooudyfsgoyugsdg gt HIV and MALARIA
4	i drive a lambo. thats why
0	i drive an ev and love it
4	i drive racecars for a living
2	i enjoy driving V8 petrol cars
0	i feel bad for people who die because some of us have a great life but they do not.
1	i feel hopeful  cos cars  are
1	I feel hopeful because it means we stillhave a chance of saving our planet so long as we makesure to that whatever we use for new fuelis ecofriendly!
1	I feel hopeful is because when petrol cars get baned than the air will be much cleaner and there won't be that much polution.
0	i feel like it gives the planet more of a chance. we can live without petrol
0	i feel sad because you waste money on gas. We could scooter or bike and it doesnt cost anything.... its free and keeps you healthy by excersising
0	i feel that it  would be good for green house gases
1	i feel that it would be awesome. however it would beahuge expense to thepopulation to have toreplacetheir cars would nz govt be subsidising ecofriendly upgrades?
3	I feel worried because many environmentally friendly ideas around an alernative to petrol run cars exclude those who  cannot afford them. However if this issue was abe to be resolved I woud feel hopeful.
1	i fell hopeful  for this because it will maybe extend the years we have until the damage we have done will be irrevsibe
0	i fink that mice populations will go up
0	i hate cars i like walking
0	i hate petrol though i love the smell
0	i have a new baby cousin
0	I have an electric car and bike and i think once people try travelling by EV they will never go back to fossil fuel ICE CARS.
3	I have concerns rearding  batery recycling  and the use of fossil fuel to creae power still in use
4	i have no money for a new car
1	i hope everyone gets behind theidea
1	i hope humans can not be distructef things to nature
1	i hope it makes a difference
1	i hope it will work and hope people will like the idea because we need to save our planet
1	i hope nz can start investing in public transport and cycling.
1	i hope public ransport and every alternative are going to develop so we can get rid of petrl cars asap
1	i hope that  the world will not  die
1	i hope that a better solution will be found that means we have more options
0	I hope that by 2030 petrol cars are banned because of the effect it is making.
0	i hope that eventually nothing gives off green house gases.
1	i hope that it helps fight climate change. things need to be done now!!!
1	i hope that it will help us with climate change and saving ur home
1	i hope that our future generation has better polution rates
1	I hope that people realise how important this could be to ensuring we have a future on this planet and that its not yet too late to help heal what has given us life
1	i hope that people will care enough
1	I hope that the next generations infront of me will realise that petrol is harmful and make people sick. I aslo think that more people should have eletric cars.
1	i hope that thi plan will sucseed because it will save our planet
1	i hope that this happens because it is bad for the enviroment
1	i hope that this is possible
1	I hope that this would have more people turning towards electric cars, or at least hybrid cars. I'm not sure if the language of "banned" is a great one, as that limits each person's freedom of choice, but I would definitely agree that electric cars should be encouraged, as well as other transport alternatives. Having more frequent, reliable public transport that is more cost effective than taking a care is definitely a step in the right direction to reduce individual's car use. Having owned a hybrid car, I can definitely emphasise the cost-effectiveness of not having to fill up on petrol as often, especially with rising petrol prices. There are lots of ways to approach this, and I think any way to reduce transport emissions is the right way to go.
1	i hope that we are able to make this happen
1	I hope the birds stay in their home because there is loging
3	i hope the poler bears feel better
1	i hope the poller bears feel better
1	i hope there are better options. Hydregen pehaps. Batteries are also a problem in terms of production and disposal or recycling materials.
1	i hope there is more renewable energy
0	i hope they gone s there crashs no more petrol spillng  into are great sea and i dnot like the smell
1	I hope they will go away soon
0	I hope this will create a positive future for our children.
1	i hope this will happen but wont believe it till i see it
1	i hope this will reduce our gas emissions but i am not sure if we have enough time
1	I hope we can at least make NZ plastic free
1	I hope we can help to reverse the damage we are doing to the environment .
1	I HOPE WE CAN PROTECT NATURE AGAIN
1	i hopewe still have time tosave our planet
4	I jusr bought a new car! SERIOUSLY libtards gone too far.
2	i just dont really care man.
0	i like being excited it is cool
4	i like cars that go vroom. not cars that go pffffffff
4	i like fast turbo cars. baaaarpsututu
1	i like it and because u can play with it
1	i like it cause it sounds cool and i am funny
1	i like petrol. it tastes good on toast. now there will be more for me and those pesky cars won't be using it all up #$@#!!
1	i like the idea of it and it sounds cool
4	i like the power of a good v8
4	i like the smell of burning fossil fuels
4	I LIKE THE SMELL OF PETROL
4	I like the sound of a v12 strāīght pīpē fērrārī. dōnt wānt sō fākē āss sōūnd ōn ān ēlēctrīc cār
1	i like wild life and i dont want animals and plants to become extinct.
0	i live a better life without cars
3	i live in a stat e de ansiedad
1	i love cars and the noises they make but not at the cost of pollution
2	i love cars so idont mind at all
3	i love drive and use my car.if i could i would like by an electric one for the plane feel better. we never stop USING CARS IN fifteen yeats it s impossble. people are not ready.they cant keep his own dishes themselve so they cant stop using cars.
0	i love elecricity and my name is JEFFRY
0	i love electic car and petrol polutes the air
0	I love learning. but i need motivation. ith out a fture i have no motivation. i want to save the earth.
1	i love te papa so much
3	i love the idea! but we're not making swift enough progress toward this goal. i worry that not enough people care to vote for these types of policies; and that the oil industry is too entrenched and politically powerful to allow for the speed of change required to combat the climate crisis.
0	i love to be here with ny choir family
2	i lovecars and petrol so much lets keep petrol cars # i love petrol cars so much
1	i need to see the govt create more incentive or make electric car affordable.
0	i once went to toilet but forgot to wipe
3	i own a perol car and the impact of such a short transition wouldbe far too large. particularlyin rural areas
0	i promise that youl never find another like mee ee ee
1	i really  hope this will happen!!
1	i really hope sustainability becomes first nature in the next few years. humans depend on it.
1	I really hope that banning petrol cars will help the environment.( even though it might not) I also love walking.
0	i really want an electric car
2	i te mea kaoreaui te taraiwa lol tekaumawha noa ihooku tau
3	I temea kei teraru te ao.
1	i thibk ths woud be good for the world and would keep the earth spinning
0	i thin k that they are to bad fōr thē ēnvironment
0	i think  hydro is cars are theway.
3	i think  i feel worred because i fee like some people wont want to just use eletrice cars they just will want to use petrol
3	i think  im not well at all
1	i think  it  is possible but improbable due ti ignorace of fossil fuel damage to our biosphere.  Maybe 2040-50.
1	i think  it is a good thing
1	I think  it is a great idear but will it work? I         am hopeful because  then   hopefully   climite change will change.
0	i think  that petrol cars are bad for the environment
0	i think  that stoping   clmate chang isalways good
3	i think  that this could afected all of the wild life and it could be fatel
2	i think  that to blame the car  is short sighted.Find  better ways to convert  existing  cars to burn  clean   or  run more efficiently.
0	i think  the  cars should be baned   its good for the save the planet  and the envoiment
1	I think air quality and natural beauty are more important than fancy cars. Plus I like the Nissan Leaf.
1	i think already owned vehicles should still be allowed within reason. but all new manufacturing should be electric
0	i think animals deserve to live and never get killed in their whole entire life and they should definitly definitly say no guns in the whole entire universe
3	i think banning cars assumes a middle class income to replace with an ev  how will these cars be disposed of?
1	I think banning petrol cars is a bit severe - maybe a petrol taxwould be better. It would also be good if public transportwas improved and if the gvernment subsidised costs for public transport.
1	i think because if we keep on usibg then itwill cause global warming and melt our poles  then so many of our dearest most specialest animls will go extint
0	i think because petrol polutes our planet and  i  don't like polition
0	i think climte is really sad
3	i think electric cars are bad for our bodies
1	i think electric cars are cool.
0	i think electric cars could help reduce emissions in NEWZEALAND as we have plentyof renewable energy sources.
1	I think electric cars should rule the world because they dont polute the world as much as petrol cars and this matter is very important to me!
1	I think hopeful should be the mostsafe answer it will nakenewzeakand and other countries nore happy. but what if other petrol used objects come?
3	i think iam worried because i feellike some people wont want to use eletric e  cars they will want to just want to use petrol cars . but my mum has a eletric car
1	i think if everyone maks a concerted effort we cab achieve it
0	I think if we ban petrol cars it will help stop global warming and help us have a healthier future
1	i think if we can find good altrniie
1	i think if we don't the world will have no bird
1	i think it is a good idea
1	i think it is a good idea because  it is better for the environment and   us.
1	i think it is a good idea because otherwise the enviroment will be very spoilt and not good for our nauture
1	i think it is a good way to help the planet
0	i think it is a great idea
1	I think it is a great initiative. I hope it will reduce the affects of global warming.
1	i think it is a step closer to a solution holding against climate change
3	I think it is elitist. Lotsof people cant afford new model cars
0	I THINK IT IS GOOD BECAUSE IT WILL SAVE THE WORLD.
0	i think it is good because we need to fight about stopping climate change
0	I think it is great because we need to protect the earth
1	i think it is important for the next genoraition to get handed a good safe enviroment to growup in.
1	I think it is important for us not to use petrol because it will make the world less poluted and it will be safer
0	i think it is remarkable that the government is finaly thinkibg about nature and are going to try fixing it
0	I think it is very exciting as petrol cars emits carbon into the atmosphere which is a cause of enviro pollution by turning to electric cars we can reduce the carbon emission thus having positive impact on our environment.
1	i think it isimportant not only for our generation. but also for our kids
0	i think it should be banned because of gloal warming
3	I think it should be reduced not banned as we still rely on electricity but there could be other ways. Im worried for the future but also hopeful as there are change happeing.
0	i think it waould be good for the community and do more for animals
1	I think it well be good
1	I think it will be a difficult transition for many but a good one.
3	i think it will be bad  because other wise how will we get cars can we make hover cars
0	i think it will be better without cars pumping gas out into the envioroment and also a plus is that we can keep the enviroment cleaner
0	i think it will be fun
1	i think it will be good because less fumes
0	I think it will be much better for our planet and I think it will be a good change tomake
0	I think it will encourage a lot of new innovative ideas and will be better for us in both short and long term
0	i think it will good for environment
1	i think it wontbeeasy to put the future before profits
1	i think it would be intresting forthe results
1	i think it would be nice
0	i think it would cause less pollution
0	I think it would slow down gloal warming and climate change.
0	i think it wuld be good
1	i think ita a good idea to save earth
1	I think its a good goal but we have a long way to go before it is practical and realistic for NZ
1	i think its a good idea but i feel that most people inpoverty might find it hard as no petrol cars are not cheap
0	i think its a good idiafor the enviroment
1	i think its a promising idea. however the technology has a long way to come and the implementation would be challenging
4	i think its a terrible idea. i love my big black v8 range rover. how will i be able to show off
1	i think its an ambitious target. at the moment cost prohibative
0	i think its better for the enviroment
0	i think its exciting what technolgy will do for us and how it will help the enviroment
0	I think its going to be good for the environment and should have happened long ago.
0	i think its our responsibility to  care for the earth and all her precious inhabitants
0	i think its the way of the future
1	i think itwill cntribute toourclimate change problemand wlleduce carbon emission
1	i think itwould be amazing and more an more people are becoming aware of their enironment but some are obstinate
3	I think lily is lying about her "boyfriend" rhys...
2	i think my name is isla mae
0	I think New Zealand would be better without petrol cars as people waste money for it and that money can be used for food and to protect native wildlife/plants.
1	i think normal cars would be good because we dont need to be cool bossy and rude about it
1	i think nz needs to declare cliate chabge as an emergency. to lead by exampleand use or resurces in a responsible way
0	I think over the last 150 years we have taken our planet and its longevity for granted. We are slowly realising our way of living is not sustainable. I hope we can make impactful changes quickly enough.
0	I think petrol cars are a horrific waste of resources and we should have moved on to sustainable fuel sources by now.
0	i think petrol cars generated a lot of emissions in which put ourenvironment in danger. we should encourage others to use electric cars as they emmit less emissions.
1	I think petrol cars shoud go because they polute
0	i think petrol cars should be banned because they are bad for  the enviroment
0	I think petrol cars should be banned because they are releasig bad chemicals into the air that effect our atmosphere
0	i think petrol cars should be banned because they hurt the enviroment and kill animals its not okay to not care about dieing animals in the wild they help us live we should help them live its not fair if we hurt them in return for helping us
1	i think petrol cars should be banned soanimal and plant species will not go extinct
0	I think petrol cars suck for the evironment and that there are lots of great alternatives to drivingthem.
0	i think petrol will become too exspensive
1	i think public transport is the way to go
0	i think since we got two legs. we shouldprobablystartusibg thm
3	I think some people wont care and I think we need cars. Hopefully people buy electric cars so that we can get no petrol. But we see all theese save money on petrol adds? some people rely on cas that have petrol.
0	I think technology exists for cleaner cars that are just as effective as gas burners. If we can replace petrol-powered cars with a cleaner alternative we should.
1	I think that any effort made to reduce fossil fuels is an important change required to sustain the earth for future generations. Protecting the earth and our environment is of paramount importance regardless of the financial burden or the inconvenience or peoples opposition to change. Its not a question about SHOULD petrol cars be banned. Instead it should be asked WHEN will someone in power have the BALLS to impliment the change. And the answer to that question should be yesterday.
0	I think that by reducing our carbn footprint we can fix our ozone hole which will have a positive effect onour tourism industry. this will boost our economy thusly as we dont xport cars in the first place
0	i think that cars should be banned because of global warming and people say that in 12 years earth will not be able to be inhabited.
0	I think that cars should definitly be heading towards electricity at a much faster rate
0	i think that even though electric cars are less owerful theyare also more economical and have more torqe
3	I think that EVs are too expensive and that if we ban petrol cars it would be damaging to cmmunities in rural areas.
1	i think that fossil fuels are the past
1	i think that having better transport options is necessary but also hard to implement
0	i think that i will live for long!
1	i think that if this works climate change would be hindered-  maybe enough to buy us time to stop climate change altogether
0	I think that if we ban petrol cars then there will be less pollution in the world and we might have more of a healthier future
1	i think that it could  be good but also how would we get around
0	i think that it is a great idea to reduce our wrolds pollution by getting rid of petrol and having electric cars instead
0	i think that it is very important that we do something about climate change as it is a enourmous threattohumanity andwe cannot keep ignoring it. we have eleven years until climate change becomes irreversible.
1	i think that it will be hard to achieve but will b very good if we can doit.
1	i think that it will help save our planet
1	i think that it will help save our planet
0	i think that it willhelp the enviroment thrive
1	i think that it would be an awesome thing but it would be great if it was done sooner. petrol cars polutetheair and exellerate global warming!
1	i think that it would be good for the enviroment hehe and its good to try new things hehe
0	I think that its a really good idea because we don't need petrol cars becuse we've gt eletric cars and bikes
4	i think that its stupid beause about 3 million cars will be deemed useless. so where will they go? probably into millions of acres of land.
1	i think that itwill be better for animals and their water  because it will no longer be poluted
3	i think that not only me but everyone wants this car to leave
0	i think that people will look back on the age of petrol and think we were crazy to use it for so long
1	i think that petrol cars are obiously going to have an impacton out future
4	I think that petrol cars do so much damage to the environment that by 2030 there wont be much point changing what has already been done
1	I think that petrol cars might be banned but electric cars might become less common.
1	i think that petrol cars should be banned  sooner than that
1	i think that petrol cars should be banned because they are reckigthe envouriment and if we d not do something nw we manever be abe to do it again
1	I think that petrol cars should be banned because they are ruining the environment and polluting my future ( I am a child )
1	i think that petrol is bad . for  the enviromentand hurt nature
0	i think that petrol should be banned becase carbon emmisions are destroying the ozine layer
0	i think that that there is no point putting on that rule because some people like m like old cars so it should not be put n
0	I think that the only way to avoid climate catastrphe is to turn to a low carbon economy.
0	i think that the wholeworld should switch to renewabe energy
0	I THINK THAT THEY SHOULD BE BANNED EARLYIER BECAUSE OTHERHWISE THE WORLD WILL BE PAST THE POINT OF NO RETURN!
1	I THINK THAT THEY SHOULD BE BANNED TO HELP STOP CLIMATE CHANGE AND AIR POLLUTION
0	i think that they should really be banned because they kind of kill the animals.
0	i think that this is a great idea
1	i think that this is a possibiity in first world countries as not everwhere has access to reliable and sustainable electricity
0	i think that this is a very good idea
1	I think that this might be a good idea. We should also be using electric cars. But I don't want this cycle to repeat because we are using too much electricity. But for now this is a good idea
1	i think that thy should be banned as it is bad forthe neviroment
1	i think that to make a change we need drastic action
4	I think that we should act fast
0	i think that we should be able to breath clean fesh air in our own city and not haveo worry about how clean the air is how how its effecting us as humns our lungs and the generations to come. electrc cars will help eliminate and or lessen this problem
1	i think that we should stop because it ill hopefully stop global warming in the long run.
1	i think that withot cars it would be alot easyer
1	i think thatit is an awsome idear but it is not coming along fast anuf we need to do more about plution
1	I think thatit wouldbe good for the environment and that people don't help enough.
3	i think thatmost people couldnt afford this fancy cars that you charge
0	i think thatthey should be banned becauseit is polluting our earthand eventually us as well. (i am a child)
0	i think thatwe need toput the planet first
0	i think the date should be earlier. look at the example of NORWAY. NZshould take more positive action.
1	i think the solution should be to provide better public transport etc instead of banning giving people alternitives.
0	I think the use of "banned: here is too forceful. That's not the country we live in. But petrol cars should be phased out and I think the government needs to support this financially. So many vehicles chug out pollution. I don't think 2030 is realistic for that kind of change. 2050 maybe. These things take a generation. Look at smoking today - are young people really doing it? Not nearly as much as when I was a teenager 20 years ago.
2	i think the whole world has to come together to make a difference and that is very unlikely. The war display of 70 years ago is an example of not learning we arestill fighting.
4	i think the world is dying
1	i think there is enough solution to use something else than the petrol but it is a big buisnes and the gouvernment earn so much money. but if thepeople really care about the planet they have to do something and i think in new zeland that possible but not everywhere
1	i think there is no need with proper public transport for there to beone person  and onecar
1	i think there needs to be suitable technology to allow the move toelectric ornon_petrol vehicles
0	i think there will be less pollution
1	I think there will be more opportunities to avoid driving a car by using petrol and hopefully the majority can afford it.
0	i think theresmore efficeint ways f fueling.
1	i think they should be banned
1	I think they should be banned because hey are poluting the air
1	i think they should be banned because it ruins our air
3	i think they should come up with new ideas for why petrol cars should be baned
1	I think this because  it may be diffucult for long trips. It could also be hard for less  fortunate people to buy an electric car. But I am hopeful that the goverment  will makes this happen the right way
3	I think this is a blunt instrument statement. It would be better to have a statement saying all NEW cars must be electric vehicles by 2030. I think if this statement came into being the consequences would unfairly target the poor of our community. Government and local government are not providing effective and efficient public transport so the private vehicle is often the only choice for someone working two jobs and travelling a long distance between affordable housing and their work.
1	i think this is a cool idea because we will have less fossilfuels
1	I think this is a good idea because fuelcars produse hamful gas into the atmosphere. However if they put a ban towards petrol cars the people with petrol cars will not be abel to do anything with them and they will just be left as junk.
0	I think this is a great idea and I tottally support it.
0	I think this is agreat idea and will be great for our planet and environment
0	i think this is an obligation for our future generations
0	I think this is great because petrol and fossil fuels are destroyig our planet
0	i think this will dramatically help our environment however what will hapen to the cars
0	i think this would be areallyvbig step in terms of environmental change
0	i think this would makefor a greener future
4	i think u should to the old squid video and get the old eathquak house bac
0	i think we can come up with better methods of getting from point a to point b without digging up and burning dead dinosaurs
0	i think we can use much cleaner forms of energy
1	i think we gave the brain power we just need to put our money where our mouth is
1	I think we have a chance to influence a new way of living. Let go of what is killing our people and our planet and move towards what nourishes us.
1	i think we may need longer but am optimistic it could eventually be possible
1	i think we need to be hopeful. with hope. we can do great things and achieve a better tomorrow
1	i think we need to change
1	i think we need to invest in electric transport and the infrastructure to support it.    we should all be riding bikes anyway
1	i think we should be looking in to other options to cars
0	i think we should be taking action and this is a good way to do it
1	i think we should have come far enough inalterbative energy technology we wnt have need fo them
1	I THINK WE SHOULD JUST BAN THE SALES. THEREFOERE EVERYONE DOESNT HAVE TO BUY A BRAND NEW CAR
1	i think we will encounter a heap of problems along the way but i think as a country we could  pull it  off
3	I THINK WHILE ITS A GOOD STEP IT WONT BE ENOUGH
2	i think will have a better solution
0	i think with on cars that are not electric
1	i think you should sub to ########
0	i thinkit is an excellent sustainable idea!
1	i tink its important to use environmentally stable option for our fture
1	i totally agree because of global warming
3	i travel 165 km eachcay to get to work
1	i wanna live in a safe accepting world
3	i want a car in 2070 so plz dont
1	I want a future for my child where the CO2 levels are kept to a viable level.
1	I want a future were people can actually live. If we work together on this then we can prevent isolation on Earth
4	i want a nissan skyline r34 gtr chur
0	i want electric cars but still have the cool engine noises
0	i want live with working lungs
4	i want lots of food but there is none
0	i want nz to be clean
1	i want that to be our reality
1	i want the air. sea and land to be clean again
1	i want the world to survibe
1	i want to annoy jeremy clarkson
0	I want to be able to tell future generations that we helped change this world for the better
0	i want to create a sustainable world and future
0	i want to die of old age and not climate change
3	i want to drive my petrol Ford MUSTANG
4	i want to eat choclate for now
1	i want to have a future where i dont have to wear an oxygen mask wherever i go
4	i want to hear the turbo whistle
0	i want to live in cities without cars
0	i want to look after the plnaet that gives us all life xx
0	I want to make the world a better place for animals and everything else alive. :)
1	I WANT TO MAKE THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE!
0	I want to move to renewabe energy
0	i want to save our beautiful planet
0	I want to save the planet
0	i want to save the planet
1	i wantmy children to inherite a worldwith some hope
4	i wasted my life w student loans when it doesnt matter bc we are all gonna die :(
4	i went toilet but forgot to wipe
1	i will be dead by then
0	i will have toget a new car!
3	i won t be able to afford a new electric car to replace my current car
3	i wont be able to go toilet
2	i wont be here and was smart enough not to breed and continue puluting the planet with humans.  destroy all humans.
0	I worry about destroying our planet.
3	i worry because what if it doesn' t  work something bad could happen
1	I worry that electric cars will not solve the problem as the energy needed to power them has to come from somewhere and its not yet all coming from renewable sources
1	I would be good for our system in the future
1	I would be happy for this to take effect. In the short term it would take a toll but it would hopefully inspire people in larger countries to take action.
1	i would like  to think tht people might re evaluate their priorities and choose leisure activites that dont impact so negatively on the environment
0	i would like to see more cycle friendly and safe roads in Aotearoa
0	i would like to see more sustainable and eco friendly modes of transort tohelp reduce ecosystem disturbance and global warming
1	i would like to think that there is still a chance of saving mother earth
1	i would like to think we could do it
1	i would lv this to happen but technological avaliability nd econoical restrictions make this extremely difficult
0	iam curious to know about how the future will be at that time with nopetrol cars in terms of reliability.
1	iam hopeful this will happeb bt not excied because i thibk the goverment will take a lot of convincing.
0	I'd like to leave a better world for future generations
1	I'd love to see NZ transition to a sustainable energy regime but I fear that the fossil fuel industry will block research efforts.
0	Ideally the date would be earlier (2025?), but that would require major incentives from the government to support the transition. Electric cars are still unaffordable for most people.
1	ideally the focus should not be a ban on petrol cars but peoples attitudes towards transport and the greater affordability of electric vehicles
1	if all other countries  are making it happen NZ should be able to do it better and quicker.
1	If electric cars can become affordable to the average person and there is widespread charging station availability then they are far and away the future of transport.
3	if electricity is still generated by fossil fuels we are not improving the situation
1	if governments and companies can stop thinking about making money i think they could work out a healthy and permanent solution
0	if hemp wasnt made illegal we would already be there. stupid old people
1	if it happens what will it be replaced with and will that cuse porblems in the future
1	if it works it would be cool
1	if it works then yay us. if it doen't people are disappointed
0	if its true it would be helful
1	if people band them they will band other things and i care for nature
1	if petrol car are banned by 2030. Then we can do much more and help to get our planet healty again
0	if petrol cars are banned then we are able to usemore sustainable sources of feuland keep our planet healthy and clean.
3	if petrol cars were banned  i couldnt afford a car
1	If there is enough charging stations
1	if this actually happens wordwide there may be hope to recover from the damage we have already done.
1	if this can coe about it would greatly decrease the pollution by a large amount
1	if this happens we have a better chance of protecting our world and everything in it
1	If we aim for 2030, the reality will be that by 2050 we might be closer to less petrol cars on the roads. The other side of this is seeing an increase in car manufacturers switching to designing and making electric or hybrid cars.
1	if we can educate and get people committed we can make a big difference to climate change
1	If we dont act quick we will kill what keeps us alive
1	if we dont changes that are irreversable will happen
0	if we dont we are doomed. we have to end fossil fuels and start removing whats there. this isnt economic or even moral. its existential
0	if we only ban the masses forcommuting needs but manage to keep car enthusiasts and car clubs going
1	if we perfect fuel cell technology and make hydrogen fuel and the materials needed more accesssible we will be able to get rid of the use of fossil fuels
0	If we remove petrol cars we have more reason to start the future. Sooner. Also please add commas. They're very important.
1	if we replace petrol cars with electric cars that have been manufactured in earth friendly ways and are powered by earth friendly electricity it can majorly reduce the amount of pollution that we create.
0	if we want a future we must learn to live in balance....
0	if we want to live it needs to happen
4	If you care about the planet then no one should drive or use any sort of emission producing vehicle. Emissions can be produced by manufacturing electric vehicles too. Everyone should just walk if they truely care about the planet.
4	if you provide an affordable alternative to the petrol automobile and a place to destroy them then it is a good idea. China needs to do something though. If China doesn't do anythinge are doomed anyways
0	if you remove petrol cars.  people will drive "self-driving" cars and will remove accidents and lower traffic jam
0	II am really excited because I get to go to welington
2	im a bannana im weard ra
1	im a litle sceptical ofauthorities to carry it out
4	Im angry because of the birds leveing their home because of loging
4	Im angry that 5 percent of people dont care.
0	im excited because now the environment wont get harmed
0	I'm excited becng ause finally people are doing someting.  We haven't been doing anything for far to long. I'm glad to see that we are finally doing something.
1	im excited but worried too... where are all the precious metals for the batteries being made and is that sustainable. what happens to the old batteries. what about child labour in the mines.
0	Im excited for the prospect that people will focusless on petrol and more on drilling for Oil and burning fossil fuels
0	im excited if their replced with a suitable and on a renewable energy source. awesome
0	im excited to see a world which is clean and green!
0	im excited to see alternative ways that carswill be powered.
1	im fat ugly dum not smart
2	im fat ugly not smart im poor i poop in class i get bulled
0	im going to miss the smell f petrol
0	im here with my schoolseeing cool things
1	I'm hopeful again  for our world to have a second chance.
1	im hopeful athough unsure about the unintended consquences and what impact the alternatives will have ... more research is required
1	I'm Hopeful because I want the best for our world.
1	im hopeful because we need to take drastic steps quickly to have a healthy future
1	im hopefull that this idear will work
1	Im hopeing that they ban them because they arent good for the enviroment
4	im in tgepetrl industry are ou tryubg to end our livkihood
2	i'm just a teenage dirtbag baby
4	im not sllowed to plsy ont he ipad or ds in the morning
3	im not sure if i can afford an electric car...
2	im poor and me dont drive
0	im really excited for this idea petrol car has done too much harm for the environment
3	im worried as i maynot have a job
3	im worried because by 2030 itll be too late for the world. in school we are learning about things sure as ocean acidification and global warming. research has shown that by that time the ice bergs will have already melted and that'll bring up sea levels and cause bigger natural disasters and by then it'll be too late to change this. this is a great idea and i love it but that time is too late
3	impact of batteries on the envornment from ev cars
1	improve public transport  and make it far cheaper   This will reduce numbers of all vehicles.
1	improve the environment for future generations
0	improvment and inovation to the grid
1	in all honesty i want a life time supply of chips
0	in hope of saving what is left of our planet.
1	In just over ten years, I would love for us to have figured out how to meet our travel needs/desires without costing the Earth so much. Let's work together to do this.
0	In order to meet the 1.5 degree target outlined by the recent IPCC report, and to reduce the catastrophic impacts of climate change, a dramatic and rapid transition to a low carbon economy is needed in the next 11 years. Leadership has to come from governmentmaking policies that match the scale of the challenge. Our transportation sector needs to transition to electric and alternative fuels as soon as possible.
3	in trying to find another solution we may be limiting greenhouse gas emissions but making something else worse that we dont know the consequences of yet
1	increased concern about the impacts of climate change will force adaptation in relation to our modes of transprtation. greater public interest in public transprt such as buses and trains will encourage greater investment from central govt which will in turn encourage the use of these form of public transport rather than cars
3	infrastructure and replacement waste would be consequent
1	invest finite energy in developing a renewable energy and transport system in a regenerative society with distributive ownership :)
1	is it a realistic solution?? something that we are actually able to achieve??
3	is it realistc.and th rest of the  world needs to work just as hard.
1	is not good for the inviroment
3	is that date realistic? it sounds good but can we afford to buy non petrol cars. or convert motors. and whats the technology like? how realiable? what does electromagnetic waves in heavy doses do to us and the environment if we went 5g etc? what about electricity use and potential environmental damage in another way like more hydrodams etc. maybe if we explored free energy instead of having a  money focused power company... alot of these ideas are not always looked at holistically and how itaffects all levels of being now and in the future... it sounds good but ppl are usually first work and convience focused. mre than environmental.
0	is the best for our planet
3	is the fossil fuel substitute able to sustain current transport conditions. example flight shipping trains trucking transport
3	is there goingto be an affordable alternative?
1	it   sound like a   good  idea
3	it  is the future but we are not ready. tech not ready. costly and also with environmental problems.
1	it  will be better for the environment
0	it  will keep the planet clean
1	It absolutely needs to happen - but I worry slow uptake of societal understanding will slow change
0	it beggars belief that they have become so prevalent
0	It betters our health and our planet
1	It depends on what the altenate option isand its impact
1	it depends on whether the replacement models are environmentally friendly. the batteries on current non petrol cars are not...
1	it does not polute as much as petrol and  deisel would
1	it doesntmake too much of a difference. the lithium from the batteris will be just as bad when it comes to disposal andtheyare known to explode for no reason
2	it dosent matter petrol or electrict
2	it dosent relly cross my md itdosent relly matter wha kind of cars we have
0	It gives hope for the future. We need to stop burning through our resources andtake responsibility for our natural environment
0	it goes into the air and warms the earh
1	it good idea but we have to thinking about reallifetoo
0	it has to be the way to a sustainable future
0	it has to happen.  transport fuel emissions are a large part of nzs carbon foot print
0	it helps to reduce air pollution.
1	it is  bad because it kills the enviroment
0	It is a chance to use less fossil fuel.
1	It is a good idea and for a more sustainable environment but since they have been around for so long...   a very large change like  this would make eople angry and hard to chnge...but still hopeful
0	it is a good idea because CO2 is damaging the ozone layer.
1	it is a good idea for the enviromental
0	it is a great idea.shows we are serious about potecting our environment for all those to come.
4	it is a HELPFUL WAY TO GET AROUND
0	it is a major step towards combatting climate change
1	It is a postive step in the right direction. Electric cars are slowly becoming more common however a deadline would speed up this change.
1	it is a really good goal to help with climate change
0	it is a way toshare eachothers culture
1	it is a wy to stop polluting and other energies industries to grow.
0	It is about us...only about us humans who can change the climate. Soin  my eyest his a step into the right direction.
1	It is achievable and NZ is in a good position to do this compared to other countries due to our renewable energy, but it will need to care planning to allow affordable transport to all of NZ
3	it is all well and good to have this goal but where will the energy come from to power the cars.....no one seems too worried about that.
0	it is amazing and ilove the way they set itup
0	it is an esential step towards cutting carbon
0	it is an important and nessasary step for a green future. 10 years are not much time but humankind needs to find a way to intoduce an alternative otherwise it will be to late to fix this mistake. nontheless we have to shut down other sources of greenhouse gas emissions too like the kattle stocks.
3	It is an important step for our planet's future. I am not sure how to put this into practice. There are so many cars and people who do not care. And there must be an alternative..Maybe not electric cars with lithium batteries. The building of lithium batteries is so bad for the nature. It destroyes more than it helps to protect.
0	it is beter for the envroment
0	it is better for the earth
0	it is better for the future generation
1	it is essential to stopusing petrol
1	it is far more cmplex than this simplequestion
0	it is good and better for the  envoronment
0	it is good for the enviroment
1	it is good for the environment
1	it is good for the environment
0	it is good for the plant
0	it is good to get non petrolcars
3	it is good to have petrol cars .
0	it is great less fuel emmisions
0	it is high time we started living in balance with the natural world. Cutting down our emissions is a big step towards it
1	it is important to lower carbon emissions
0	It is important to start implementing drastic changes to our behavior in favour of the wellbeing of our planet and the species we are supposed to share it with. Have you considered cars that run on water rather than electricity?
0	IT IS MY BROTHERS BIRTHDAY TODAY
1	it is necessary for common good
0	it is necessary forthe planets survival
4	it is not  helping  us breathe.
4	it is not going to fix anything
0	it is one step towards stopping climat change and saving the planet
1	it is only possible to make such a change if  we alldevote ourselfes to it
1	it is possible. there are alternatives. human greed and oil big business is holding us back
4	it is qute impossible forthis to happen as more and more cars (by the thouands) are being made everyday to satisfy human needs
0	it is so much  fun here
0	it is the  intelligent solution for  the  vehicle  industry
0	it is the only future fir the planet and our children
0	it is the only way to move forward
1	It is the only way to save the planet.
0	it is the only way togo
0	it is the right thing to do to move away from fossil fuels.   we need the government to subsidise electric cars and make sure suppliers fully support and provide replacement batteries in nz.   we also need the government to invest in trackless light rail.  and in wellington not stuff up a perfectly good bus ervice.
1	it is time to make a bold move to save our planet and future. there is no planet b.
1	it is time we move to greener transportation
1	it is ultimately only possibe if it is cheaper to buy electric like in Norway
1	it isa good step for us to be taking; i hope that big oil will and business priorities will not continue to be a barrier.
0	it isawesome to not polute  earth
0	it isnot a very sustainable source of  energy and there is a tight monopoly around the amount that there is.
0	it isthe right thing  to do forthe future of our earth
0	it just needsto happen.we need to get beyond reliance on fossil fuels
1	It makes no sense to drive na individual car in cities. NZ will need to develop better public transpor
0	it makes perfect sense  . we must use renewable energy ASAP
0	it may feel drastic but i think we need  to learn to live without unnecessary conveniences. shared and public transport options make a lot more sense in the long run.
0	it means that new technologies should be available to the masses
0	It means that the enviromnt willhave achance
1	it means we re starting to get it
1	it might be some other wars in the future and the technology will be getting betterand better so th war will be much longer than before
0	It might help save the planet
1	it needs to be done but the transition will be difficult
0	it needs to be done. using fossil fuels SUCK.
1	it needs to haen very soon.climate change is taking a toll. this will help significantly
0	it saes the planet and pisses off therich bastarsds
1	it seems immensely unlikely without funding for eletric cars allowing them to be cheaper as a result
1	It seems like a promising initiative and why not?  We need to face up to using alternatives to using oil/ petroleum based  products  -  IT IS A FINITE RESOURCE!
1	it seems like a wise option
1	It seems to be more common and accepted in society
1	it should baned because it pollutes the earth
1	it should be a thibg of the past
4	it should be done sooner our planet is dying
3	it should be done way earlier!!!
1	it should be sooner but it will be a great evolution
0	it should have done years ago but all the big petrochemical companies have too much money to lose.
0	it shows that we are looking at the long term consequences of our actions.
3	it takes energy and materials to support evs and we dont know enough about what to do with the waste products. more research is needed before we commit fully to banning petrol cars.
0	it well be  good to have aletrek cars in welington
0	it wiill be better for the environment.
0	it wil force  us to to lead helther lives and nt find excuses to drive everywhere
0	it wil help with the global warming
0	it will  help save our environment
0	it will be  a  big  help
1	it will be a big step for our environment conservation and we need it.
1	it will be a difficult transition but we ahould not be burning fossil fuels anymore. however...battery production is notwithout it's own harmful impacts.
1	it will be a good reason push for better  public transport infrastructure
1	it will be a great step. but happens to old cars? recycled or put into landfills? how much will it cost for a family to get an electric car??
0	It will be an efficient way of travel and will be much better for the environment
0	it will be an iterative process getting from a to b free of petrol driven cars
1	It will be beneficial to slow climate change
1	it will be beter for the planet
0	it will be better for people and the planet
0	it will be better for the enviroment
1	it will be better for the enviroment
0	it will be better for the environment
1	it will be better for the environment
1	it will be better for the environment
0	it will be better for the environment
0	it will be betterfor our world.
0	it will be cool having eletric cars and it will be good for THE ENVOIRMENT
1	it will be difficult to implement but necessary if we want to save our planet
0	It will be fantastic for both noise and air pollution. And actually they are better at producing power output anyway.
1	it will be good because there won't be fumes
0	it will be good for our planet.
0	it will be good for people and the planet
0	it will be good for the enviroment
1	it will be good for the enviroment
1	it will be good for the nayture
1	it will be good on the inviroment and the animals
1	it will be good to save our environment by reducing carbon emissions created by petrol cars. however i feel that banning them altogether may not be the most viable option.
0	it will be just a tiny step in the right direction. cannot wait for this to happen.
0	it will be much valuable to have a walking street city
1	it will be one of theonly chaces to try save the earth altough2030 might betoo late
1	it will be possible if companies and peoplemake a commitment  to alternate fuels
0	it will be the best thing for the environment and planet.  Save our world!
0	it will be the biggest thing  we can do for climate change
0	it will be very good for the inviroment.
1	it will begood to wean ourselves off fossil fuels. hoping to make alternative transport affordable for lower incomes too.
3	it will cause a huge problem with all the old cars.how should people all get new cars in just a coupleof years. and whathappens to the old ones
0	it will create so manyother benefits for people aswell benefitting our health and connection to others
0	it will force people to utilise public transport. alternatives for petrol will be developed.
1	it will have to be a big effort to succeed butwould be great
0	it will help preserve our beautiful country
1	it will help reduce carbn emissions
0	it will help stop climate change
0	it will help the crisis with global warming and whatnot
0	it will help the enviroment and future generations
0	it will help to save our planet
0	it will help with stoping pollition
0	it will hopefully stop or decrease chances of global warming
0	It will improve the environment and create more collaboration
0	it will lower carbn emisions and cool down the lanet
0	it will make a difference to the environment
1	It will make it better for the Earth
4	it will make no differece because we are not responsable for global warming it is a natural occurrance
0	it will reduce pollution and gve us cleanerair
1	it will remove the amount of greenhouse gases used however the production of electric will cause more waste
0	it will set us up for a more viable way of living
1	it will take time for technology to become readily available and socially acceptable for things attitudes to change
0	it willbe so much better for all of us
3	it wont be enough to save the planet
1	it won't be until it gets to dangerous levels that actionwill be done but there are so many adovocates fighting the fight
1	it wont happen but im hopeful
1	it would be a great start  for our environment.
0	it would be a huge step towards reducing emissions
1	it would be an amazing step forward in caring for our land BUT it will be expesive for manylike myself who cannot afford to replace my car currently!!
0	it would be an incredible achievment and great for our world
1	it would be awesome but we need to be sure that as much of the old petrol run cars are reused to avoid them filling up landfills and making our beautiful land look ugly. also make sure people are actually helped in the purchase of their new electric car
1	It would be better for the environment.
1	it would be good but big gas companiesdont wat it
0	it would be good for the enviroment
1	it would be good for the enviroment but i love vintage cars and seeing them rolling down the street gives me joy so i think we should just put a heavy tax on them or something
1	it would be good to ban then bcause ofh damag to the enironment but i feeli dotknow if it will happen bt i hope :)
0	it would be great as long as electric carsare the same price as petrol cars are today
1	it would be great but has huge challenges associated with it. what is the replacement?
1	it would be great to make optimal use of our resources whilst nurturing our environment.
1	It would be great to reduce greenhouse gases and focus more on using electric and hydrogen fuelled vehicles; which have developed so well over the last few years. However all countries need to work together to be able to achieve this target!!
0	it would be great to save money and environment #stayinskl
1	it would be great to see alternative transort options
1	it would be great to stop the pollution from cars!
1	it would be great. but hard to change peoples minds
1	it would be grest if sound alternatives were available
1	it would be ideal but i image there will be some push back and rejection.
1	It would begood to see us get together to find better alternatives.
1	it would help but animal agriculture causes most of our greenhouse gases. Reducingor eliminating meat and dairy in your diet does more.
1	it would help to limit toxic gases into the oxone.
1	it would make a big difference to climate chnge
1	it would make a huge positive impact on our deteriorating planet
0	it would make me feel hopeful that we wouldnt be wrecking the planet for future generations
0	It would propel us to find more innovative solutions hopefully more beneficial for theenvironment
0	it would reduce carbon emissions significantly and be an efficient long term city invesment.
1	it would require people to caremore forthe environment so if it happens then its a good sign that people are conciously making an effort.especially politicians and big companies.
1	it would show that people can make a positive difference.  Against a backdrop of Trump suppressing climate science this is really important.
0	it would show we could do what is needed
1	it would take a huge effort from people and government. im hopeful. but money and lobbies seem to undermine current effort
0	it wouldbe great and i hope it will happen quickly
1	It wouldbe really good to lower theworlds carbon emition
1	itd be good for the enviorment but hard to do
0	itd help us not die so much
0	ithink its a fabidea to save theearth
1	Ithink that  petrol cars should be banned because the greenhouse could make Earth blow up.
1	ithink thatits a good idea but the petrol companies wont letit happen
1	ithinkthat this is good because we need to reduce the amount of  carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and we are the generation that needs to fix this because if we dont this is going to end in catastrophe and a mass extinction
1	itis inevitable. but world ecconomies whosewealth is based on fosil fuel will resist. too much wealth in few hands is a dangerousthing.
1	it'll be good for our environment and future of our planet
0	its  polluting our world so much that its not good forus or any of our wild life
3	its a bit early. they are too entrenched in our society. definitely in 40 years
1	its a bold step to help manage earths resources and help prevent global warming
0	Its a crucial step in sustainability and moving forward.
1	its a goal but i think it will be hard because of he number of cars in the world
0	its a good idea but expencive
1	its a good idea but there are far too many  petrol cars. the government would need to do a handin for an electric vehicle scheme
0	its a good idea but whatabout the big battries in electric cars those are still terriblefr th planet :( maybe we need abetter more sustaible solution :)
1	its a good idea i guess but u have to get the right infrastructre for it to work
1	its a good start but more needs to be done
1	its a good thng for are lives cause if we dont we may die
0	its a goodidea cause ts cheap and i want a tesla
1	its a great idea ....hard to put into practice
1	its a great idea and is necessary. we need to ensure there is infrastructureto support thechange
4	its a hoax by imf to generate tax and lessen your freedoms . lets get rid of factories that  produce useless goods we dont need
1	its a nice idea but we should keep some petrolcars
4	It's a nice thought but it's naive and unrealistic
3	its a pipe dream because people are greedy
0	its a smart choice and is better for the enviroment
1	its a specific goal to atchive. there is no other option tan to limit our cd2 to a minimum. hopefull sientist fin good electric solutions
1	It's a step in the right direction at least. Hopefully it is not too late.
1	its a stepin the right direction. but a lot more work needs to be done.
0	its about time. but also should be sooner
1	its absolutely necessary to minimise negative effects on the climate but increasing income inequality means most nzers will need subsidies to afford evs and public transport must be improved in our cities
1	its ambitiousbut will make a huge environmental impact if successful. hopefully it will bejust th beginning of sustainable change for the better.. only 12 years left to save the world...
0	its an amazing idea which will fuel more sustainable transport iniatives in the future. heres tosustainability!
1	its an ideal.. does not mean its everyones ideal
1	its an unrealistic goal but i would be estatic
0	its bad for the enviroment so excited for another way
2	its becuase its bad for the envioroment
1	its best for all of eternia     I HAVE THE POWERRRRRR
0	its definitely for our childrens future
0	Its exciing to see what other renewable ways are invented
0	its exciting and new i wonder what the future will be like for our children if we did this
0	its exciting to move towards zero emissions
3	its going to be an incrediblw task
0	its going to lead us to greater things
1	its good because petrol is unrenewable resource but not sure if battery is reliable enough for electric car and we need more charging place more available
0	its good for the enviroment and will help reduce the pollution in the atmosphere
1	Its good to go with non polluting power as long as we plan ahead with our resources with a planned economy
0	its great and needs to happen
0	its great if we ban petrol cars
1	its great to dream big but the everyday reality is cars arent going to disappear anytime soon.
0	its herting the plannet planes are worserits better  t ride a veicle or walk
1	it's important that public transport will be improved when this is implemented but it will be a good change:)
0	its important to make real changes
1	it's importatn we start taking bigger steps towards caring for our planet as an interntional community
1	it's interesting the number of babyboomers who arenow concerened fr the environment and are pushing for a car free city. it's hard to get  kids to daycare and be on time for work when riding a bike.
0	its just a matter of time before fossil fuel runs out.
0	its just aseasy as petrol cars so yolo why not
0	its long overdue that we use alternative sources of fuel
0	its neccesary for the earths survival
1	its necessary to save our planet
1	its nesessary. vote! campaign for climate responsibility!
0	its not a renewable energy. once petrolruns out thats it. plus its destroying the environmnt so we should kinda care about that
2	Its not going to happen. plus cant drive so dont care
1	its not good for the enviroment
4	its not likely to be practical by then
1	its only ten years to get rid of all petrol cars. although its a pretty cool idea
0	its our turn to help the environment
2	its peoples choice then y ban it
1	its possible if we invest more on alternative energy
1	its probably bad for the enviroment. will eventually kill us all via sun overheating us.
0	its really inportant for the invirement that we shange how we treat our invirement.
0	its the new possible future. the more people  care the more that can be done n the future. We need to let more people know. Our next big challenge is to think about more alternatives. I think we need more solar powered cars. we should use NZ  geothermal  energy to power buses and cars.
1	it's the only fuure we can afford
1	its the onlyway to continue our comfortable lifestyle. changeour methods .  i hope battery technology get more efficent atthe moment it is equaly  wasteful
1	its the rightstep in the future to reverse human effects on earth
1	its time to look after our home
0	its time to start caring about the consequences of our individual choices
0	its time we moved firward uckk on ths
4	its to expensive to  buy electral cars  plus i love global warming
3	its too far away.weneed change NOW
1	it's what needs to happen to make great steps towards better change.
0	Its will be good for the earth  and air
3	its worrying as theres very little options for personal transport
1	itshard to change things people are used to
1	itwill be good ffor the invirement
1	itwill be good to finaly invest in some other form of power..such as lightspeed?
0	itwill be less carbon emissions this screen s really dfficult to use
1	itwould be awsme if petrol cars where banned but it woud be diffcult
1	Itwould be great to reduce carbon emissions
3	I've been slowly poisoning the Australian prime minister but he seems to be getting stronger... help
2	ive heard electric cars give you AIDS
1	j espere que ce sera une realite dans le monde entier
0	just ban them they kill our birds
4	just bought a new car and don't want to buy another
0	Just one step towards a cleaner Earth
4	just shifting the pollution upstream to power creation
0	kaore ka pai ou ki te haeretino poture
0	keep our carbon in the soil
1	Kei te haere au ki te wharepaku?
0	kia ora ai te wāo nui a Tāne mo ake tonu
0	Ko te take matua kia tiaki tātou katoa i te ao. Ēhara i te mea mō tēnei wā ēngari mō ngā tau e heke mai ana.
0	Koinei teetahi o nga tuaahuatanga e takakino ana i te taiao.
0	Kua tae te wā! Kua roa te wā i mōhiotia ngā raru; ka tīni rawa ngā whakaaro o te motu īnaiani! Rawe!
0	l  want to save the earth
0	la fin du bruit. respirer sainement
4	large businesses are disregarding their ability to help. need to take responsibility
0	lead the revolution. electric cars were once the future until oil barons killed them.
0	lectric cars are fast...vroooom imma win a drag race bitch
2	lego cars will take over real cars
1	less bad stuff in the air...
0	less carbon emissions ruining our country
0	less cars so that means more wildlife and culture. i love our planet cant we not make it better?no racesism. make electric cars cheaper!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! suscribe to ##### in 2020 or 2021!!!!!!
0	Less CO2 in the air has to be a good thing!
0	less congestion and pollution. potentially safer.
0	less emissions and a healthier planet
0	Less emissions is good for theplanet and will help global warning
0	less envrinmental damage bc we are fucjed
1	less fossil fuel use is a positive thing
1	less pollution and more happy people
0	less pollution which is better for the environment & us
1	less pollutionbut wheere do we start from
1	less wars over control of oil
1	lets change theway we live and travel for the future of our Tamariki
0	lets do something easy. govt subsidy.infrustructure. we will all feel like part of the solution
0	Let's do this! My children and I already have respiratory issues. We have the chance to change this for future generations.
0	Let's show leadership in fighting climate change!
0	Lets stop importing $9 billion in fossil fuels each year and start using more locally produced renewable energy and keep money to strengthen our economy.
1	limiting  intensive agriculture would also help. But overthrowing capitalism would be the single most effective solution.
0	Liquid fuel is not renewable. We need renewable energies.
3	lithium batteries are a hazard. lithium mining is toxic. Disposal of batteries bad for environment. Recharging requires energy obtained from where
1	l'm hopeful because everything and everyone including us might be harmed by pollution.
1	looking forward to a less polluted planet...
0	lots of emissions by cars is bad.- Also fuel exploration and industry is not environmentally friendly
3	Lots of peoples jobs and cars will be lost.
0	lots of pollution might cause a lot of animal to be extinct
3	love the theory behind it but as a broke uni student the financial aspect worries me. financial govt support would be needed
0	lower cost better for the enviroment and change needs to happen!!!!!!!!!
1	make sure people can still afford individual transport. new zealand is not densely populated so be creative with shared ride solutions public transport and keep electricity prices low while power generation needs to be from a mx of wind water solar etc. Also think about hydrogen!
2	Makes no difference to clnate change globaly
1	MAN UTD FOR LIFE. ALSO I AM JEFF
1	massive polluters. get a bike and support public rail
1	may gods wrath rain heavenly judgement upon the utter incompetence we call mankind. then and only then will savation be reached on earth. finally an elysium will be created.
1	maybe  we wont die so quick
1	maybe a perfect public transport might be invented
0	Maybe banned is too harsh (what about classic and vintage cars?), but I hope that there will be strong disincentives to owning petrol cars in general.
1	maybe it could help theworld getting cleaner air very fast
2	Maybe it might not work out because if people can't afford them then we can't move around.
1	maybe its not to late for change our way of life
3	Maybe people will be able to do this but it is more likely that we won't be able to afford a mass electric car production (which would also be awful for the enviroment and we probably couldn't overcome that pollution).
1	Maybe people will take climate change if something drastic is done
1	Maybe restrictions on the production of petrol cars could be addressed before then so it becomes a reality sooner.
1	maybe there's still time to keep carbon in the ground but we need agriculturalsolutions too to meet the atmospheric output to 2030
0	maybe this way there will be hope for humanity. otherwise we are heading for extinction
1	maybe we can have a future
3	Me and my family own a ford territory anditruns on petroland so does our BMW if petrolcars were banned we would have to buy a new car
2	me like petrol it smell nice hehe
1	ME LOVE NATURE TRUST MEH IAMHOPEFUL GIMME ANIMALS
0	me tiaki Papatūānuku i a tātou
1	ME WANT THIS TO HAPPEN BECAUSE I THINK DEY EVIL
0	mean as no more carbo emissions from cars. kia ora
1	Minecraft 1.14 lived up to the hype so I feel mojang and microsoft are taking the game in a promising direction
0	more affordable options including public transport is the best response. we need to invest now
0	more bikes - less noise   more public transport- more social than cars
1	more sustainable options will be developed
0	more time to watch boku no pico
0	MOST of our electricityis cleanlyproduced  so electric cars are hugelybetter for the world than petrol cars
0	most of our pollution is made by cars. we need to put a stop to all of these emissions.
0	most of the electricity generated in  nz is renewable so lets stop burning fossil fuels when we drive
0	moving our environment to a better place
3	mr fusion wont be invented yet.. and cars rule
3	my cat is missing and i miss her :(     muffin where are you?????
0	my dad bought a electric car
4	my dumb bitch ex cheated on me
4	My feeling appears on the screen
0	my mum has got an eletric car and petril cars are bad for the enviroment
0	my mum is forsing me to say dis
4	my shit is out of date
0	naturalressources are finite andwe destroyed too much already. we'll need to get back to a place where there's a balance
0	nature needs our care to heal it
1	need renewable energy solutions to allow a sustainable future for earth
3	need to build proper infrastructure for electric vehicles. also the current cost of electric cars leaves the poor out of transport
0	need to reduce emissions is urgent. requires infrastructure
0	need to stop using fossil fuels
0	need to think of the enviorment
0	needed everywhere - not just  AIOTEROA!
0	needs to happen much earlier than 2030.
0	needs to happen sooner now. stop importing fossil feul cars now. develop electric car conversion factories and or use solar energy to make feul for carbon neutral transport
0	needs to happen yesterday. we have to change.
0	needs to happen. Many changes need to be made to preserve our planet
3	new cars using battery might be a new type of enviromental issue if batteries are not properly recycled.
0	new possibilies living with the future in mind
1	new technologies. renewables. the human greed has to give in and leave a liveable world for our children and their children
0	new technology is always challenging our intellect.
1	new zealand can lead the way
3	new zealand compared to countries such as china and america are just a pin prick if we stop petrol cars here when they do not what effect will it really have on the world as a whole.....very little we are fighting a losing battle that will only look good on paper for political votes
0	New Zealand could lead the world on this
1	new zealand is definetly a country which is best travelled with a car. banning cars would hopefullyquicken up the developement of environmentfriendly alternatives and even better public transport options
0	new zealand is perfectly set up for renewable transport. LETS DO IT
0	new zealand should lead the world in regenerative technology
3	New Zealand still generates power by burning coal, so I worry that people are just shifting the negative effects from the public eye by moving to EVs that run off of poorly produced power.
1	New Zealanders will help lead the way for th erest of the world
4	nice idea but have little cofidence in polĪCY makers d their ability to get thubgs right... second reason is wait untilthe technology is right before dreaming
4	Nissan Skyline GTR all the way baby
4	no becausethenu donthave  full felling of the cru are drivng
0	no fossil fuels needed. BETTER FOR OUR PLANET.
0	no lnger have to worry bout extreme petrol prices. also its helbg the world we live in by no loner havibg petol running cars
1	no more big shitty and useless 4x4 !
1	no more petrol means less carbon
1	no one need to kill the humans. we're doing it by ourself!  we should start protecting the earth . we only have one
4	nono no i just made a note that not good i love cars dont band them pls
1	NOT A FAN OF CLIMATE CHANGE
0	Not a total ban. Just a ban to new vehicles. Cleaner forms of transport are already available and becoming more affordable.
3	not all areas ar  suited for electric.rural roads  are not good enough and ditance
3	not enough electricity to charge all electric cars
4	not enough time to do safely plus destroys car industry
1	not everyone likes the idea of giving up on petrol cars so I hope they argee on this now soon
4	not soon enough. Im gonna be dead by that time. PEOPLE ARENT ACTING FAST ENOUGH
0	not sure if realistic...however i like to keepmy hopes up.. and the idea excites me
1	not viable by 2030 due to the impact on the economy but the pressure to work towards this is essential
1	nt everyone will wanttodo it. it will create less fossil feuls but disposingof theurrent cars will cause damage tothe environment
1	Nuclear power plants and electric cars are solution@
1	nz govt needs to subsidise elecrtric cars like other countries are.
1	NZ has extensive low emmission power generation we can utilise and expand.  Good vision & leadership from government and businesses will be important.
1	NZ has plenty of eco power especially if we get rid of comalco
0	NZ has the unique oportunity due to geographical location and small population to become THE world forerunner in renwable energy and sustainable living.
2	NZ is a small nation ; small population . Lesser population than other nations . NZ is surrounded with clean air and ocean water : plenty of sunshine and natural resources to substan our habitat.
0	NZ needs to be environmentally friendly.
3	NZ roads are not suitable for electric cars. Urban use of electric vehicles should be encouraged but long haul driving requires petrol or diesel.
1	nz should change attitudes towards biking - good for both environment and public healt
0	nz should try to move proactively so we are ready for international transition to low carbon economies
1	of all the innovations weve come up with its about time we solved this problem
2	of course the climate change is a big thing and its important that we protect our environment but for me its not important in which way this will happen. so maybe we invest more in sustainable cars or ships or sth lse
2	oh shut up adddi oh yeah mum gimme more apples ugh
2	oh shut up mia stop crying laughs hahah
0	oil is a finit resourse. we need to stop using it for temporary items when there are many other solutions available
0	Oil is a limited resource. Climate change is one the most urgent challenges of our time.
0	oil is a taonga which shouldremain in theearth
1	oil is unsustainable and doesnt help the environment
0	Oil's time is over. Bring on the electric car.
1	on condition of sustainable alternatives which currently are seriously lacking or not envi friendly to produce or maintain.
0	one of the necessary steps to save our planet
1	one step to a better enviroment
1	only because idont want to ride a push bike
0	only drastic action will change consumer behaviour
1	only if electric cars are truley better for the environment
0	oppertunity for new ways to get around
3	other options are not as reliable yet
1	our  earth should always come first.
0	our ancsters. life was not more boring than ours because of the lack of technology. WITH no fossil fuel consumption we can survive and thrive too. a total ban is not unfair for dubai or ulanbatar. good
1	our country is too young in the advancement of public transport or electric car support. But when we are there we will move forward as a country rapidly.
1	our environment needs the respect it deserves.
1	our planet is dying . i hope this will contribute to saving it so thatwe can save our future
0	our public transport should be better
1	our youth will come up with new ways of commuting
1	overcoming corporate greed and investing in electronic conversion solutions for older cars
0	part ofbeingmore in balance with nature and the earh environment
4	pathetic hate the idea dont like it one little bit
4	peope call me silly  words to me
3	People and governments need to take urgent action but this is not happening. I mean over 50 percent of Americans either don't believe climate change is real or that it is not caused by humans. We need belief before action can take place
0	People are begining to realise the harm it does to our home environment. Excited for change
3	People are more concerned about convenience than they are about finding sustainable permanent solutions. I worry for our future.
0	people are obliged to invent something better
4	people are still making bad choices. i want people to care more. please reduce your meat and dairy intake or stop alltogether
3	people are too resistant to change. honestly i think its all talk. whos actually going to DO something?
1	people are too set in their ways tochnge from whatthy are used too. i believe it eill tke longr than 10 years
1	people can do anything they set their minds to
0	people dont care about the environment until it directly affects them. we need toact before itgets t that stage. sadly people care little about anything except themselves.
3	people havent understood the environmental impact of batteries hence the number in ev's. open your mind people to all the alternate solutions
3	People might need to use them.
1	people might not want to ban them but
1	people might wake and relalise how  this  is going to effect our future generations
0	People need a push  otherwise they wont make the necessary changes by themselves. Myself included.
4	People should be allowed to drive whatever kind of car they want and whatever kind of car they can afford. The government does not need to come in and restrict peoples freedom of volition
0	people should be taking action now not waiting for the future
3	People should have freedom to make their own choices
0	people who think that looking cool in petrol muscle cars probably have  too large an ego and too small a penis..... go get some viagra and stop polluting cunt
3	people who wn petrol cars will be forced to spend more on the new cars. this will leave them withlittle to no money or will not be able to travel
3	people will need to find another way to get to places without wasting energy.
2	People will other ways to fuck the planet
1	people will start to care about cliate change very soon
3	people wont be able to get around
1	People worry about the jobs to be lost by switching to renewable energies. I underst an d thatworry. But with these new energies comenot only new jobs but also infinite opportuniies to better care for our planet--our home.
3	PEOPLE WOULD HAVE TOFIND ANOTHER WAY TO POWER CARS. BESIDES WE CANT JUST USE ELECTRIC CARS!
1	petral cars are ruining the world.
1	petril is bad for the envierment
0	petril is bad for the enviroment
1	petrilis bad for the envierment :)
0	petrill is bad  for the enviroment
1	petro cars are ruining our enviroment and electric cars should take over because petrol causes globalwarming and that will affect tuataras because males are born in hot heat and femals are born in cold heat and that would affect tuataras and other birds in te enviroment.
1	petrol  is bad and causes pollution
1	petrol  not sustainable and future generations are suffering at the hands of those who damaged the earth
2	petrol ānd  gās ārē nātūrāl nātūrāl rēsōūrcēs ā gīft ōf fūēl  tō mānkīnd fōr fūēl ūsē ānd ōthēr nēēds. Wē shōūld cōntīnūē ūsē īt wīsēly . Āgēēd tō kēēp ūsīng īt .
1	petrol affects our global warming so hopefully this change will help prevent it
0	Petrol and gas are detroying the planet we live on. That is bad.
0	Petrol and the toxins it lets off are harming the world. If we stopped using it the world would be a better place
3	petrol as well as being a greaat worrieto the ceo sistem in the form of gas itgath
1	petrol can kill the animals on land that we love.
1	petrol cars are a major contributor to climate change.
0	petrol cars are bad for the earth
0	petrol cars are bad for the enviroment
1	petrol cars are bad for the enviroment because of the polloution that petrol causes
0	petrol cars are bad for the world.
3	petrol cars are bad forthe environment
4	petrol cars are brilliant and shouldnt change
0	petrol cars are harmful for the enviroment and petrol cars use fossil fuels witch is harmful for the enviroment.
0	petrol cars are infecting our lifes and we may noiove as l
0	petrol cars are just  bad for the enviroment and arent needed when whe have eletric cars
1	petrol cars are no fun. electric cars are more exciting and eco freindly
0	petrol cars are not good for the environment
1	Petrol cars are one of the leading causes of air pollutionand greenhouse emissions. The only way to reduceour emissions is to take a stand against our old lazy ways.
0	petrol cars are only a small part of the larger problem of climate change caused by humans and more action must eb taken sooner as the problem will soon be irreversible
0	petrol cars are outdated and electric shouldve been the ' way of the future' inthe 90's
0	petrol cars are polluting the planet and it costs too much money to buy petrol
1	petrol cars are poluting our air
1	petrol cars are shi t for the inviorment
1	petrol cars are so contamminnant for our mather Earth. THY ARE CONTRIBUETING TO GLOBAL HEATING AND THE INVERNADERO.EFFECT  we have other options known long time ago.ITS THE TIME TO USE ITAND STOP PETROL CARS!!!!!!
1	petrol cars are unnecessary now there are alernatives.
0	Petrol cars can easily be switched with more ecologcal alternatives: trains buses or tramways.
1	petrol cars contribute a large portion of our carbon emissions. electric cars wouldbe a great step towards being carbon neutral.
0	petrol cars do so much damage tothe ozone that i hope they do get banned
0	petrol cars emit corruptive emmisions into our athmoshpereif we switch to ev we will reduce a big part of climate change
0	PETROL CARS POLLUTE the enviromnent. We need to invest in cleaner technologies that will improve our environment and reduce harmful emissions
0	petrol cars pollute the world and makes us sick. Not just us but also our beautiful birds of Aotearoa
0	Petrol cars realease to much polloution into the air which is bad for the envoriment.
0	Petrol cars really bad fo the environment and it would be so amazing if theywere banned
0	petrol cars stink let's get electric!
0	petrol carsare archaic and directly destroythe environment. i am worried about the minerals needed for batteries
4	petrol carsare worse foe the planet so thats good because fuck the world
0	petrol carscontribute and create emissions which are bad for the environment and add to the bad gasses in theatmosphere
1	petrol companies would not allow it
0	petrol emissions are dangerous and driving climate change
0	petrol emissions are driving up co2 levels
1	petrol is a non renewable source and i hope one day the bogans will realise
4	petrol is alot cheaper. electric cars are expensive. Producing batteries is harmful to the environment!!!!!!
1	petrol is bad for the environment
0	petrol is bad for the environment
1	petrol is bad for the environment
1	petrol is bad for the environment
0	petrol is bad for the evironment
0	petrol is bad fr the environmnt
1	petrol is inefficient and bad for the environment all cars should bebanned py ten though public transport is the way to go
1	petrol is not good for the enviroment
0	petrol is one of the most dangerous polutens and it is exciting that technology can grow so fast in just ten years from now
1	petrol is poisonous if we ditch this īt wīll bē ōk. āftēr āll wē hāvē fēēt
0	petrol is really bad for the environment
0	petrol is something that  polouts nature and  is bad for the enviroment
1	petrol is soooo expensive like seriously!
0	Petrol needs to do other things.It powers machines that are neccesary for survival nd unless there is a way to recycle fuel we need to go solar.
1	petrol not sustainable we dont have time to wait for action its already to late to keep thinking about climate change. we need to be doing
0	petrol polioutes are planet and thats not ok
0	petrol transport is so last century and  damaging .
4	petrolheads love cars and supercars need petrol.
4	picking up chicks in my R32 tho
0	planet has to survive for my grandchildren
0	planet is dying. need to help it as much as we can xxxx
2	poeple dont care about the mother nachter
0	Policies and gvernment change are the only way to stop climate change. We cannot make change alone we must work together.
1	politicians may try and avoid this becafuse they worry about electoral backlash rather than ennvironmental effects.  The aussie election result seems to be a example.
1	politics always interfere so notsure if achievable
1	Pollutes the enviroment and makes the ozone hole bigger.
1	pollution is only one of many reasons
1	poo poo poo bum bum bum
3	positive alternatives need to be found first or it wll never work
0	positive step towards the change we need
1	pPUBLIC transport should be provided wherever possible including rail on electricity. importing second hand cars using fossil fuels should cease. park and ride schemes shouldbe an intrim measure.
1	Prices for electric cars will have to come down quite a bit o make it more affordable. Or develop a more reliable public transport.
0	priorities should be reversed. #1 should be pedestrians #2 should be bikes #3 should be bus #4 should be cars. It's currently the other way round.
0	Private transport is outdated and needs to be modernised
1	probably be those people who dnot care about  the enviroment
3	production of batteries for electric cars is just as harmful as greenhouse gases and even more harmful to already exploited third world nations.
3	progress is ongoing -how can we slow it down?
4	Promote electric vehicles and improve your public transit instead of destroying capital.
1	public transport and electric cars have so many pluses compared to petrol cars
1	public transport is sadly to expensive compared to private
1	public transport options to Saturday sport etc is lacking
0	quinn is never gonna be as coolas george doyle
0	quinn #### is the  best and george is not cool treway. go follow my instagram @#######
0	Realistic timeframe to transition to less damaging tec
1	realistically 10 years is probably unachieveable for a clean transition. Especially the cost factor to all involved. I COULD see a 50/50 improvement but not a ban.
0	really hoping to save the earth or do less harm
0	reduce carbon emissions as log as the energy used to charge EVs is renewable.
0	reduce global warming. renewable energyis the future! not fossil fuels
0	reduced emitions and cleaner air creating a better eviroment for us all
1	REDUCING EMISSIONS IS A GOOD IDEA :)
0	reducing greenhouse gasses is the best way for the recovery of our planet
1	Reducing our consumption of fossil fuels is necessary for saving our planet from irreversible change. We have the technology to make it happen. We just need to take down large corporations like Shell and BP to make this happen.
0	Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions is the only way to keep our Earth livable for our children and their children.
0	Reduction of carbon emmisions will save our planet
0	reduction of emissions will significantly help reduce the impacts of global warming
0	Reliance on fossil fuels is dangerous
1	renewable energy sources is how we should power our transport
1	repeating the same mistakes is insanity led by people with outdated views and opinions
3	replace petrol with what?we dont have an alternative tht works on sucha massive scale. electric cars need to last at leastten years before they pay off for the envirnment and use alot of heavy meterals. its isnt that simple and easy asjust do it.
3	resoures is running out..which means that the sun is our only souce of energy
1	save me paying for fuel and save the planet
0	save the planet for our kids.
1	save the planet one small step at a time. kia māīā
0	saves us and our planet(wild life as well)
1	seeing the display of brd sounds and the silence of the extinct birds brings home the shock of human profligacy. i am hopeful because this move indicates a shift towards greater personal responsibility and care for others.
1	seems difficult with the current price of electric cars and lack of quick charge stations.
1	self charging cars are the future
1	self driving and light rail for the win
0	self driving electric cars will solve parking and roading issues
1	Several car accidents causedb hnan error self diving and electric cars are better for the environment
1	SHOUD BE THE WAY FORWARD BUT PEOPLE ARE IGNORANT. KIWIS LIKE BIKES ALSO AND THERE DOESNOT SEEM TOBE ELECTRICA VERSIONS OF THESE AWFUL MACHINES
1	should happen quickerbecauswe dont have 10  years
4	should see how much pollution is created when you make a lithium battery big enough to power a car. just stick to making fuel from renewable resources. ethanol for example
4	shuld be sooner so the effects are better
1	SINCE ITS 2019 and petrol cars are dominant native animals are dying and i want to stop it
1	since we are the responsible of the destruction of the earth this is ourresponsabilityto save it  for the human beeing and the Nature
0	smoke free invention as alternative transport
1	snakeheaded aliens run our oil industries.
1	so all the animals in earth do not die
1	so alternative energies .green. are being developed
0	so carbon emmissons will go  away hopefully case tbh iwant to have a future that the elders are strippibg awayfrom us
1	So I  can breath without issue
0	so i dont  have to  worry about palootion    as much .
1	so i humans can live on this planet forlonger
2	So long as it is effective and there are better alternatves then this doesn't bother me.
0	so many accedints with petrol cars and cars n general
0	so much better for our planet and chn
0	so my children can swim in the sea.
0	so my kid can breathe easy
1	so people do not breathe in petrol
0	so people dont fight over oil
1	so that th sea level will stop risin
0	so the earth wont keep dieing
0	so the ice glaciers wont melt
1	so wars would end and climate change will hopefully slow
0	so we can change the world and make it  a better place
0	so we can have low carbon emission
1	so we can reduce emmissions and keep the earth safe for us
1	so we can rely less on fossil fuels andimprove the the chances of a better future environmentally for mychildren
1	so we can slow down climate change but it might not get carried out
0	so we do not use all the worlds resources quickly
1	so we dont destroy the world
0	so we dont do much polluting and melting ice and floods
0	so we dont go get petrol
0	Sola powered ars will be sō hlpfūl
1	solar powered electric cars is the way forward :)
3	some  people might really like to drive a car and it get you to places faster
1	some countries have already started to take the next step. Im hopeful that nz will do the same and come up with a strategy to replace petrol cars.
1	some countries have started an emergency strategy to help our planet gain back its natural resources.. it'll be amazing to see an improvement in our environment. Let's make that change.
0	some living creaturers are all ready suffering because of guns bms but the most inportint is pollution that can effect our lives.
3	some people wont be able to afford eletric cars
1	some things dont always happen so quickly
1	somehing has to happen about pollution in our comunity
1	something has to be done about the pollution by cars. it wont happen until we run out of oil though. too much money is still to be made by oil giants who are in for money not for a healthier future
0	something needs to change for our future generations
0	sooner as they polute......we must use renewable energy asap
2	still has carbon emissins and we will still beng using materials and resources that have a large effect on the enviroment. although carbon emissins arent fom thecar theywill coe from somewhe else.
0	stopping the use of fossil fuels it will be a great achievemet
1	subsidising electrc vehicles will go a long way to achieving this
3	such an established part of society
1	Supply and affordability issues may slow this transition.
0	support the future generation...come on nz letsgive a fuck
3	sustainable energysources cant cover. the impact on the economy will be dramatic
0	Sustainable resource use will leads to better outcomes for many more generations
1	Sustainable technologies are the future. Why not be leaders of that change?
1	TAKING THE STEPS WE NEED FOR OUR FUTURE
0	talking about this issue means it's on our minds and there is hope for our future to be better
0	taxes on petrol cars subsidies on electric cars
0	tbecause humans are finally noticing the oblem and how big it is. However we were not fast enough  and  petrol pollution is already desroying our eco system. But it can quite possibly slow things down but not stop it. That is inevetble and will probably kill us first or destroy earth :)
0	te papa is the best place ever and i want to come back
2	TECH WILL NOT BE THERETO REPLACE CHEAPY
0	Technology in NZ is advancing so quickly. this will be a huge neccesary step for our future.
1	technology is availableto improve the environment. The rest is change from within
1	Technology is there already to fix the pollution created by petrol cars. Governments need to invest abd create new policies to implement.
0	technology may have some solutions to our current climate problems
3	ten yearsisnot that far awayand we dont have a suitabl replacement yet that doest require harmful extraction from the earth. ie battery mining and disposal
0	teslas will rule the roads #voteElon
3	tha its too short of a time peroid and our nfastructure couldnt handle it
0	thē gvērnmēn nēēd tō bān cārs
4	thē sōūnd ōf ā v8 īs tōō  gōōd
3	that  the earth  will get polted
1	that 2030 is doubtful as the cost of the technology is beyond the majority of the population. The cost needs come down to an affordable level for all.
0	that brings a new economical solution to a modern day issue and perhaps revolutionery renewable energy source
3	that carbon dioxide is killing the enviroment
1	that electric cars will meet or needs
0	that electric cars would be so much better for our planet and would lead to less drilling of our oil reseves
0	that elerticcars should begiven to everyone innz
0	that etrol cars are bad for the earth
4	that i really want a rx7 fd and it runsonna rotary  engine which needs petrol...
3	that i wont be able to get to my elderly mum
0	that if less pollution goes intothe airpeople will be able tolive for longer because there is no carbon monoxide
1	that in the future that the birds will have a chance  and the world willbe 100 times better i cant wait
0	that is will really help our earth and maybe other countries will do thesame as ours
1	that it can help the planet and stop climate change and talking about making the change is the first step to provding future generations with a healthy planet
0	that it is a good idea. save the world
0	that it is a step in the right direction for new zealand
0	that it is simply a social evolution
1	that it isimportant so we dont pollate our planet. It also reduces cost for our cars.
0	that it means less pollution and the world will be a better place
1	that it should be banned but electric cars should be cheaper
1	that it will actually happen and we will be able tosustain ourselves
0	that it will be better for the environment
0	that it will be good for the enviroment
0	That it will be good for the environment
1	that it will help clean the air although unless large business changes manafacturing processes and we reduce demend on the things they produce it will not be enough
0	that it will help save the environment
0	that it will help to educe carbon emmisions and will overall be a lot better for the enviroment
0	that it will helpprevent climate change
1	that it would be great if they were because it would help the enviroment
1	that it would cut down on alot of carbn going in to the atmostphere
1	that its a good step in the right direction but iam concerned that if petrolcarsarebanned some people might be left withouta formoftrasort atthier disposal
1	that its a verygood idea but is could possebly fail plus WE ARE ALL GOING TO DIE
1	that its great to make these goals for Aotearoa
4	that its notpractical. while i do not want climatechange per se. i do not want rediculous regulations that will cause more waste on the earth
1	that more poeple will embrace this.
1	that my child might have a good quality life...in a n intact world
1	That NZ has the potential to lead the world
0	that pepole are being meanto where they come from wih is bad bad bad
1	That petrol cars are going to be the end of the environment because of all the pollution they are causing. People need to do something about it and not be lazy and leave to the next generation.
1	that petrol cars should be band because petrol is bad for the air and pollults it
1	that petrol cars should be banned because they need dinosaur juice and they sometimes kill our native birds
0	that reducing the amount of green gases in our wold will make a big difference
1	that technology will get better and allow more greener transport to last longerand become cheaper.
1	that techology will develop and make cars more reasonably priced
3	That there isnt any feasible alernatives that dont have a impact that is just as lareg. biofuel and electricity and hydro cars are the most likely and they all have problems of their own
1	that they are a hge roblem
1	that they are bad for the enviroment and us and animals
0	that they are very bad for inviroment
1	that this will only be possible if alternatives are adequately provided and are more attractive than petrol cars.
1	that this woukd be brilliant but that i hope there is the technology and infatructure available that this does not begin to cause other problems.
4	that time frame is too short... and ev are nearly as bad for the enviroment
1	that we can do this because we need to
0	that we have the pprtunit  to live a low carbon life
0	that we need to legislate for a cleaner new zealand
0	that we need to save the planet bros
1	That we should be moving away from fossil fuels and non renewables as swiftly as we can. Setting aggressive nationaland global targets is a key step in focusig effort.
3	that we should carry onmaking petrol cars till we run out of fuel. But  we should rashon the mount we are allowed a day.
4	that we should get it done by 2025
1	that we should get rid of petrol to help the enviorment so we can be a better country together we can stop palutoin
3	that wehave come to rely on petrol cars. though its still a good idea   :)
1	that would be good but not sure it will happen
0	that would make current cars more rare
2	that you should not ask this q
1	thatit is good to have a goal like this
0	thats a cool idea to help the planet
2	thats not even thtmuch of a problem
0	THATTHIS WILL  BE GREAT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
1	the  price of electric cars has to go down first
0	the ae bad fr the environent and verry oon we will have better elitric cars
1	the air quality wil be improved.  mōrē pēōplē  wīll ūsē pūblīc trānspōrt  cycleand walk more
4	the alternative aka lithium ion batteries are made of rare earth metals which in the name rare makes  them unsuitable in the long run. plus batteries are for vibrators. methanol/bacteria is the future.
0	the are so bad for climate change and we now no need for them anyway
3	the availability of transport in rural areas on a 24/7 basis for the work force
3	the capitalist wrld will not really support this. people are adverse to change and therefore less likely to actually respond plus i feel as though most of the earths damage has been done
1	the cars are run on fossil fuels that are made from oil
3	the cars will b 2 expensive bro
0	the climate crisis will hurt us all. the most vulnerable of us will be hit the hardest.
1	The convenince will be challenging to outweigh.
1	the cost needs to be lowred
1	the damage that has already been done cannot be reversed but i hope further damage to our planet can be halted
1	the earth is a place we humans dont respect and we need to learnhw too.
1	the earth is dying and humans are a disease upon it and we need to start taking better care of her and each other. hope over selfishness any bloody day.
1	the earth needs to save resources and we are responsible
1	The earth should be treated better and this is the perfect soultion to the case
1	The earth will begin to get healthier.
3	the emmisons  created from open lithium mines is greater than the emmissions used to crete a petrol car
0	The enviroment is being destroyed and we ned solutions.
0	the environment needs to be protected and our impact on it reduced - regardless of the economic cost
3	The extraction of rare elements to make alternate bateries can be just as enviromentally unfriendlyas the extraction of crude oil
0	the faster we get rid of fossil fuels the better
1	the future of earth may dpend on it
2	the government anrt going todo anything tha will affect other very large companys that bring in heas of tax money
1	The government has to put short term economic growth aside for the future tamariki of New Zealand and to prevent long term economic collapse.
1	The government would have to majorly subsidise sustinable modes of transport to make this possible
4	the govt bans so much that soon the people will have no reason to live. the labour govt is communist scum and should be jetisoned into the sea
1	the idea of cheap feul when im able todrive will save me moneyand i like money
3	the imact of banning petrol will befar lss than expecte
4	the internal combustion engine still rules  and still will for a long time as they still havent perfected the electric trivetrain
0	the less reiance on fossil fuels the better
0	The new generation needs to fix this technilogical mess the last generation has created
3	the next problem will be the question of the batteries. are they better for the environment than classic cars ...
4	the nuclear batteries replacing petrol emmits more harmful emmissions into the atmosphere than petrol cars do
0	the only real choice we have  and we can do t
0	the only way forward is without petrol cars. we need a more sustainable energy
0	The petrol cars are harmful to the environment andwe souldstart to use electric cars.
1	the petrol polluts the air and i want nice healthy air. i also think that maybe the world will get better and we will live a good healthy life
0	the planet might improvefor my tamahine
0	the pollution from petrol is bad
1	The possibility of lowering greenhouse gas emissions
0	the possiblity of limiting the extinction of life on earth
0	the potential for us to reimagine and create a future for us all
3	the production of  electric cars is more harmful to the environment than using old cars until they stop working
0	the production of petrol is unkind. also the politics around it seem a bit shit
0	the prospect of a cleaner future looking after mother nature and new tech using more eco  and innoative solutions....maybe no longer cars
1	the public bus system runs so well i want us all to experience it
1	the recnt development in elctric cars allows a new way to get around thatdoes not damage the envroment  as much.
0	The science and facts of anthropogenic climate change show us why we need to reduce GHG emissions for humans and life on planet Earth as we know it. Decarbonizing the transport sector is critically important. Plus EVs are cool.
2	The science has been hijacked for polictal purpose. we all ready have plantedmore forest than we require to offset our carbon foot print. It is a artificial point in time that the carbon sink hasbeen set to take effect from .
0	the seais my calling its  where i feel mst alive
0	the should be eliinated t soav earth
0	The smell from thepipe is very stinky
1	the smoke is very bad for the environment.
1	The solution should be better public transport services and flexible working, etc rather than banning. Give people better alternatives.
0	the sooner we embrace green tech the better
0	the sort of action we need to take
3	the speed of this transition without sufficient policy accompaniment could induce rather unfortunate turmoil
0	the technology is there for us to stop using fossil fuels
1	the technology is there just needs to get better and cheaper
1	the tecnology is there and our mind sets are changing . lets hope those investing in these technologies utilise the benefits of the what they make to go to repair work in the daamaged environment and not justline their pockets  . there is no harm in hoping
1	the time for electric car is here. we dont need to  put more bad things into air we beathe
1	the time for fossil fuels is past just as we got over using whale oil we need toadapt
1	the transition to non corbon basd fuels is not fas enough to make ths a reality
0	the use of diesel and petrol transportation ranks third in the cause of global warming.
1	The use of petrol is not environmental friedly
4	the wording of your options are one sided. i can disagree wthout being angry. if we had better electric cars that had batteries that could be recycled and the power supply to support this i would be more excited
1	the world is changing and evolving we need to do all we can to save the planet
0	the world is dying it needs to stop go by solars or sumn
0	the world is endng and this might help
1	the world is going to die
3	the world is going to disappear ahhhhhhh
3	the world is in a downward spiral and thats pretty bad but there is hope. the only thing that worries me is that we will reach the point of no return.
1	the world is waking up to the crisis and this one way we can help
1	the world needs to start making a change now. its not always easy but we need to find alternative ways forward
0	the world was handed over to human beings to nurture take care and protect for the future generations.  we are destroying. start now to leave what is remaining proteceted for our children. use environment friendly solar vehicles and reduce destruction now
0	The world will become better as we move to save it
1	the worldwill be better without pollution
1	the young generation can make this happen
0	thed evelopent ofsusta inable and alternative energy sources means we are another step close to protecting ourcurrent environment  and develop of harness greater percentage of the energy produced by our sun
4	then  what else  can we travel around with?
0	then there wont be so much pollution
0	then we   arnt polluting as much
0	there are alerntive modes  of transport
0	there are alot of other way e could ower a car. so let use  those ways.
0	there are already many means of other ways to get vehicles moving in a more healthy way.but thebig oil companies work against for the profits they make on petrol.
1	there are better and cleaner ways to move
0	there are better options to meet our needs without further damaging our planet
0	there are better solutions with improved public transport
4	there are better ways to spend money
0	there are bettter options already. public transport should be the nirm
4	there are no viable alternatives available
4	there are no viable alternatives. low income earners will be most impacted
1	there are other kinds of renovable energys to use that not aftect the planet at all. no more petrol!
1	THERE ARE POLLUTION ALL AROUND THE WORLD BUT NZ IS PRETTY SWAG. BE RICH AND BUY AN ELECTRIC CAR
0	there are safer and cleaner options such as rechargeable and or hemp being used in the future
2	There are so many other technologies we can use instead of feeding this insatiable polluting machine. Im CONFIDENT and EXCITED that this is our new future
1	there are things we must do to protect our nvironment for future generations but getting to the point where we have enough infrustructure to support only electric vehicles is another thing
1	there are viable alternatives to petrol cars. Hopefully they will become more affordable to the average car user and there will be a way of recycling the petrol cars though.
3	there arent the facilities in country areasto support this change in such a short space of time
1	there has to be a viable alternative
1	there is a lot of culture and craft around internal combustion that would be sad to lose. However I hope a new culture can be created around alternatives in the future
0	there is amost no public policy issue that would not be improvedby banning cars. health. housing. poverty. personlsafety. ban them. NOW
1	There is an over reliance on cars; but there is also a lack of alternative infrastructure in many areas
0	there is no need for petrol
3	There is not enough action to get there in 10years
1	there is still a tremendous possibility that we will continue to destroy the environment in order to make petrol free cars. we have to gain these materials without disrupting the ecosystem and and causing harm to the habitat when we are supposed to be doing good for our planet. we would still cause pollution in order to manufacture said vehicles through materialistic waste and unnecessary use of power.  i do like the concept though and i am hopeful that we will find a solution that can help the environment whilst still finding good transport options.
3	there is too much money in fossil fuels - it will never happen!!
0	there isthe opportunity for wellingtn to provide an alternaive to car. persective and expectation needs to change befor the innovation of another transport
1	there needs to be the political will to nmake it a reality - otherwise we will continue to bumble along  .
0	there shoud nly b e electic cars
1	there should and is an alternative
0	there should be a ban on new petrol cars but vintage and registered are ok
0	there should be a better alternative
0	there should be a globalban on fossil fuels worldwide
3	There should be a way for petrol car owners to convert their already existing vehicles to a more effcient medium but potential for it to be undone. Think of all the classic cars  that would cease to exist.
3	there should be more charging places
1	there should be subsidies to incentivise electric car ownership and make it more affordable
0	there will be less carbon and that will reduce climate chnge
1	there will be less greenhouse gases
0	there will be no air pollution
0	there will be no air pollution
0	There will be no more air pollution
0	there will be no more airpolution
0	there will be no more patrol
1	There will be some resistance but hopefully we can pull it off
1	theres better ways to fuel transport as already explored (electrcity solar power etc) so long as we invest production into making and further improving these options we keep our independence as well as look after the environment
0	theres got to be a better way
0	theres no choice. the change will be drastic but interesting
1	theres no point relying on something that will run out and never be used for the future generations
3	There's no way to produce enoughelecric vehicles to replace our entire fleet by 2030 - not to mention the negative environmental impact of new cars for all! I would be in favour of greater tariffs on new petrol imports or a slow phase out of petrol cars but an absolute ban would be a bad idea.
4	these are god gven natural resources for our use on planet instead of cuttng trees and digging coal for fuel.
1	these new cars need to be made affordable to all and more needs to be discussed as tohow the batteries are also dealt with or we are just creatng an entirely new issue
0	they are a great idea sustainable
0	They are a huge part of what is ruining our planet. We need to find more economical ways of travel. This is the only planet we have.
0	they are a relic of the 20th centuryan hopelessly inefficient
0	they are bad for the enviroment
1	they are bad for the enviroment
0	they are bad for the environment and we need to ban them so we can have a better habitat.
0	they are bad for the envoirment
0	they are contributing to climate change
3	they are faster and we will basically have to start again and make more eletric cars
0	they are having too much of a negaive impact on our earth
3	they are important in our culture
1	They are killing the enviroment and if you buy one you are saying I am more important than any one else.Electrical cars are amazing forso many reasons.Buy a Electrical car today!
1	They are killing the enviroment.Buying one means you are killing life.
0	they are killing the erth  and kiling our animals
0	they are poluting oceans and forest  killing native animals
1	They are really bad for mama earth; like the petrol is terrible for the air THAT WE BREATHE weare paying the price as well as our world! this is not OK.
0	they are really bad on the enviroment
1	they are stupid and need to be extinct
0	They are terrible for the enviroment and just caused havoc in the first place.  BAN THEM
1	they area goodidea but for many impractical. get ridf the barriers and it would be ideal
0	they arent good for the environment
2	they guna do what they guna do
2	they last longer than electric cars but they pollutte
1	they need to be afordable and available
0	They need to be banned ASAP
1	they need to be desipred soonnnnn pliss
0	they pollute and stink up the place and we have better options
0	they pollute and there are now econmoic alternatives
0	They polute the enviroment which could lead to the end of lots of species
0	they should already be banned. we need to look after our planet
3	they should ban them maybe sooner but otherwise yes
0	they should be banned because fossil fuels are bad for the environment
1	they should be banned because they pollute the air
1	they should be banned sooner and i really hope it happens
1	they should be but there will need to be affordable alternatives
1	they should have been banned since we knew they affected our environment. i wish better for our futur.
0	they should move it foward to 2025
0	they take up too much of the CBD
0	they use too much carbon footprint.
1	they will have ev and day r cool
1	they will invnt better ways for transport that wont demace  our planet
1	they will spoil the eviroment for future generations if they dont ban it
0	theyre bad for  the environment and we need to consider future gene rations
2	think of a city fullof buses and it is not business
0	think of the space and what we could do with it!
4	think ppl need  to get over it aye
1	this a wonderful thought and hope by 2030it is wellon its way if not we  can expect more polition
1	this big choice may seem extreme but will eventually create positive change globall
1	this could be a positive step to combatting climate change. however we need to do more
1	This could go some way towards slowing down climate change.
0	this great cause of climate change and globel warming un wanted gases are destoying our planet we also need to  fix our plasic useage cause thats killing our native wild life im hope we can fix it in the next 5-6 years come on new zealnd we got dis
1	this has potential to make a difference
1	this is a big move and would need alot of support. it is necassary and exciting.
0	this is a great opportunity to stop takng from our LIMITED resources
0	this is a massive step forward in terms of climatechange
0	this is a necessary step to reducing climate change
0	this is a step to normalising clean energy
1	THIS IS A STEP WE NEED TO TAKE TO BEGIN TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE
0	this is our planet. our home. be less ignorant please
1	this is really great to ban them...
1	this is something we should strive for
0	this is the crucial step for real change to have a positive impact for the future of our species and the plane we depend on for life
0	this is the right thing to do. thiswill make a lot of opportunity for a different betterurban living. and give us a future
0	this is verycool and im thnkful they kept the pig
1	This is vital for curbing carbon emissions and thus climate change so I am hopeful thatthis goal is achieved on time or even ahead
3	this means most people who enjoy any kind of prosperity now will be under class in the future!
0	This needs to happen before it's too late
0	this s a nessesary step for all of our future
1	this seems extreme but the reality is that it needs to happen.
0	this should have been done years ago
0	this will begreat for the enviromebt abd futrere genorations
0	This will bring a significant change to the amount of pollution in the country. my only concern is. what will happen to all the petrol cars that still work? Also manufacturing electric cars will still cause pollution in our country
1	This will force us to find a better way for the planet and our own health.
1	this will help however is just one of the steps towards reducing carbon emissions
0	this will limit carbon emissions and make for a much quieter space to live in
0	this willreduceharmful emissions hugelyandfocus on using sustainabele resources
4	this would  not be a good idea due to the fact we have people who have petrol and diesel poweredcars but who cannot aord a new car due to the fact  of poverty. some put special computers in thecar to add fuel and power makigthecar less effiecient but you can also buy a computer to regulate this . oneof the reasonspetrol costsso musch welli think weallknowwhy TAXES.
0	this would be a great outcome for futuregenerations
1	this would be great for the environment!
1	This would protect our planet for futur generations
0	this wouldobviouslyassist cleaning the  environment for us and future generations
3	Though I don't disagree with the idea, the practical impact is huge and we have only ten years to achieve it. How can an economy that currently runs a fleet of "old" cars afford to change that when to most people EVs are unaffordable now? What will change that will enable all Kiwis to ditch their petrol cars and purchase EVs or whatever are the equivalent in 2030 and not lose their transport freedom?
1	though there maynot be one right  answer... every small step counts.
0	though they shoud be banned sooner.
3	thre is minimal understanding of the iimplications
0	Through crisis comes innovation.We have a chance to create a future that doesnt just sustain us as humans but nurtures us all as life
1	thst is a verygood idea plz save the environment also because the petrol market is stupid and it is exensive for no good reason
1	thstwe get it together and pass laws regulations and the goverment learns from other goermentslike sweden and norway
4	Tiis is not good.Just bought a new car.
1	Time for change for the sake of saving the environment and cost of living.
1	time to find more sustainable options
0	time tomove forward   learn from norway
0	Tired of breathing in digusting diesel fumes all the time. Bad for the environment and people's health.
0	Tnat is one of the ways to help save our beautiful planet.
3	To date only those with enough income have been able to afford electric cars . Would poorer families have to sacrifice their own independant transport? Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions together is hugely important but how this would affect society has to be considered.
0	to drive is a luxury and joy but our reliance on it as even the main commuting method degrades what makes it special. in addition public transport which is sufficient for our commuting needs either already or eventually will move more people more often and with less use of energy resorces especially petrol. they are moving int electric power sourced from clean methods like wind
0	to give the poor scapegoat farmers a break!!!!!!
1	to help lower carbon emission.. but agriculture need to follow...
1	to help our planet to repair
1	to help preserve our beautiful country for the generations to come
1	To help save the beautiful planet
0	to help the planet recover from global warming
1	to lesson the amount of toxic fumes
1	to protect our planet from air pollution
1	to reduce the carbon in the atmosfere
0	to save the future generation and stop global warming
1	to save the planet and change our way of life in respect of the nature
1	to save what is left of earth for the next generations to come. Especially my kids
0	to see what we will replace petrol with and how it will benefit the environment
0	to stop pollution and the extraction of fossil fuel
1	tobesustainable we havetoact now and be agressive in our appraoch
0	Together we can do better for ourselves and our planet.
2	tom is a huge edgelord heck you.
2	too dependant on them. battery alternatives dontprovide enough power
1	too long we have relied on theinternal combustion engine. it pollutes the air and our ears and depletes unsustainable resources.
0	too much carbon dioxide is spilling into the atmosphere
0	too much pollution in the world
0	too much smell in town from the exaust f motors. not healty
1	too muchmoney and power in the car industry
1	Traffic in Auckland is the worst in the whole world. terrible ublic transportation system. Everyone is forced to drive. horrible air uality. this needs to be changed
1	transport is responsible for 45 percent of carbon dioxide gas generated in nz.we are 85   percent  reiant on cleanrenewable energy. lets goelectric for allforms of transport!
3	travel is my only guilty pleasure
1	ttt ttt  t  t t ttttt  t t
2	#### judy is rubish hurd that gal
4	turbos are mad as g woudbe rattos as
4	um whois mia i am Addison not ###
1	un monde sans voiture. je me demande comment est ce possible. mais je suis curieux de voir son fonctionnement.
3	Unless other options become more financially viable a lot of people will have difficulty owning a car.
3	Unless they make electric cars travel further they are useless. Not helpful towards our enviroment nor making it a better place. You always have to think about the power needed to charge them.
2	ur daddy is v  nice ;)
1	us humans have the knowhow needed to save our environment and im hopeful we shall do so whilst we still can.
3	use code ######## get  free fornite skin
1	using some clear energy is better
0	Vroom vroom is bad bad. KILL breathin
4	want to hear the rumble from the exhaust
1	war has advanced technology and i reckonwe should do some crazy stuff to make some cooler stuff happen
0	was meant to be excited. the conentration of carbon dioxide in this universe SHOULD be 350pm of CO2 but IS 400pm. this is bad because all plants are designed to take in only so much CO2 and if there is too much the plants take in too much and will die.
0	Wasteful and polluting. The xtraction and processing of fossil fuels is pointless.
1	water and hydrogen fuel systems will be made available for the general public.
4	ways to create petrol other then fossil fuels
0	we   need to stop  using  petrol
0	we  should think about the future and how we can stop climate change s soon as possible
3	we  will  not  be  able to get  anywhere.
4	We all know but are not doing anything even though we could.
1	we all need to be in this together to achieve and create a better and more sustainable earth. including that minority those that dont care
1	we all need to work together to mke our world impr
1	we are  startingto appreciate our influence and power to show loveto our planet
0	we are 20 years behind scedule to prevent the devastations of climate change. Time to hurry up
0	we are all happy an joyful
0	we are at the start of a mass extinction event and we need to start with revoltionary change....  else we all die
0	we are buying 64 diesel vans for every ev car we puting on the road
0	we are clever enough  to change the world we just need to do it
3	we are consmers to an industry who  put profit before the environment pull the handbreak and deal with the issue in real time
0	we are custodians of this planet and it isour responsibility to preserve it foe our childrens cheldren and beyond.
0	we are destroying the world if we carry on as we are. this will be a great step. but what will we do with all the old cars?????
0	we are excited because we get to see our uncl(;
0	we are facing a climate crisis - we must take drastic action
1	we are finally thinking about the future of our planet
0	we are finaly makig a change rather than just talking aboutt.
1	we are going to burn bc og global warming
0	We are going to run out of resources by then.
1	we are ingenious people we justneed to try
0	we are killing our planet with gas.
1	we are killing our planet...don't kill our kids
0	we are killing the earth with petrol
0	we are killing the enviroment with petrolium we need to stop
4	we are selling to much of our water resources that generate our power off shore. how can we  generate enough power to sustain supply.
2	we are so lucky to be living in such a wonderful age that we have the luxury to worry about such purile things
0	We are starting to make so good electric cars so why shouldnt we quit using petrol cars for the sake of the environment. it is although important to make el-cars that last so that we dont buy new ones every other year.
2	we are the champions! some people are losers!  heard that ziya?
0	We as a country must make this change as soon as possible. It's not about money anymore. If we refuse to change then we will suffer. Stop gambling with my future and get over yourselves!
2	we be dripping  on a next level gang
0	we can achieve ths goal and we should do it for the future  of life on Earth
3	we can and should do better for the planet and all living beings
0	We can be a truly NZ by banning petrol cars by 2030. hopefully we are pollution free as well. I am using Honda hybrid right now
1	we can be less reliant on fossil fuels
1	we can build a peaceful green land for our children and the future generations.
0	We can do better than this. Lets wake up.
0	we can do better with electric vehicles andpooling
0	we can embrace newer and cleaner technologies that support our transportation needs
1	we can find an other way to fill our cars (other energies)
0	we can find many other ways of transport
0	we can find new ways to make electricity and the enviromnent will be safe and not harmed
1	we can make it if we try
1	We can move forward and save the earth
1	we can not rely on fossil fuels for our fuure. Think of our grandchildren
1	We can probably meet eat the demands of a predominantly electric vehicle fleet internally from renewable energy sources. Not having to pay for oil imports and non-polluting energy sounds good to me.
1	we can reserve our fossil fuels and help prevent increased greenhouse gases!
0	we can save the planet with the energy concervation
1	we can stop pollution and save the earth
1	we can take action  . just need to begin
0	WE CAN THE PETROL MONEY ON CHICKEN KATSU
1	We can use innovation to create an emission free mode of transport at an affordable cost.
1	we can use much better techknology and we shoud use whats better ratherbthan whts lowly damaging our beautiful environment
0	We can!  So we should ...... to save our planet for future generations. It's what we must do for our children and grandchildren and their children & grandchildren. And so on!!!!!
1	we cannot continue to rely on fossil fuels. technology moves fast now. a lot can change in 19 years
1	we cannot depend on a non renewable resource. also climate change
1	we cannot rely on fossil fuels forever but lol we dont have enough power generation anyway
0	we cant afford to polute our environment any more!!!!!
4	we cant drive!!!! so we spend our lives as poo
1	we cant i dont care about stupid fosil fuels
1	We cant keep burning fossil fuels attherate we are
1	we cant keep usng fosil fuels
1	we cant survive the way we use up resources
3	we cant transition from fossile fuels that quickley
0	we cn bike or walk if we need to
0	We could find better ways to commute without impacting the environmentas much
0	We couldlead the world and export the knowledge we glean n the process.
1	we desarately need to do more about carbonemmisios etc
4	we do not have the electricity generation to enablethis
0	we don't have a lot of time left to help our planet. this is  a big step in the right direction
3	we dont have enough power supply to support it.
3	we don't have enough wealth in this country to get rid of the fossil fuel fleet in a decade
3	we dont have relabile transport or tech to make it possible. also we are a small nationdependent n transport and also diesel power
0	we dont have the luxury of time
0	we dont have time to nt transition to cleaner fuels
3	we dont know how to redesign transort
4	WE DONT KNOW THE EFFECT ELECTRIC CAR HAVE ON THE ENVIRONMENT AS THEY HAVENT BEEN AROUND FOR LONG SOOOOOOO i meannnnn
1	we dont need petrol cars    we can have fast powerful cars that run on electrcity  so therefore there is no excuse to keep petrol cars
0	we dont needpetrol we can rely on electriciy
0	We drive a hybrid and going full EV is not that hard. But people need to be able to plug in at home and not everyone has that as an option - no power outlet for the car. Can this be helped with outlets set up from power lines?
3	we firget about all the resources that go into eletric cars. what haapens to the betteries?
1	we getcloser to using just renewables every year
0	we have  already lost enough time to actually do sth
1	we have a couple of decades left to make a change
1	We have a duty for future genorations to help the enviroment
1	we have a lot of problems to address before we are able to ban petrol cars such as having more reliable alternatives. but banning petrol cars would be a great step forward in reducing our greenhouse gasses
1	We have a lot of work to encourage alternative ways to travel. Our cities are a great place to start
0	we have a responsibility to protect the land which provides for us
1	We have already developed enough technology to use efficient and sustainable sources of energy.
0	we have alternatives and should use them to save our world
1	we have an electric car and love its clean energy
0	we have become so lazy and self absrbd.we need to reconnect to the environment beforewe lose what we have
1	WE HAVE BETTER SOLUTIONS WHICH ARE MORE EFFICIENT AND PRACTICAL.
0	we have bought an elctric car
0	we have clever people who care about future environment and how we live in it
0	we have no choice its a have to
1	we have no choice. otherwise we will all suffer
0	we have renewable electricity topower cars so a great solution  to some of our environmental woes
0	we have so many options to take another energy. so let's change the world :)
1	we have so many other transport options that are healthier and smarter
0	we have taken too long to change slowly now we need to do more drastic action because of it
0	we have the knowledge and technology to make this happen
0	we have the tech so why wouldnt we?
1	we have the tech to go green
0	we have the tech to stop using petrol
1	we have the technology to make this happen. we have the needs/environmental  incentives. lets clean up our mess.
1	we have to change if we want a future
0	we have to do it for the future of the planet . there is no real choice.
1	we have to end our dependence on fossil fuels if we want to get through the current climate and ecological emergency we currently face
0	we have to for our tamariki
0	We have to have goals to am for. but without govt policy ans education it is unlikely.
1	we have to look for altenatives as fuel wont always be accessible.
0	We have to protect and preserve as much of this planets fossil resources as possible. We have to start somewhere...
0	we have to stop relying on fossil fuels it is destroying the planet. it is no good if we have a planet that cant sustain life without a stable food chain air water or climate
1	we have to take the leap and find a new way
0	We have waited too long to do something about the damage we do to our planet. We need to do more but this is a good start
3	We humans havent had a great track record in keeping promises AND I feel that the issue is less surface level than simply banning something.
1	we just need to do something
1	we know  there are options to move away fromnon renewable resources. cheaper and cleaner in the long run i wonder why it is taking so long for the world to take action. frustrated by greed of those in power
1	we know the problem and how to fix it
3	we may not be able to make or invnt another mode of transport
1	We must do everything we can to preserve this beautiful world for the next generations.
1	we must make this change and am hopeful that as humankind we will
0	we must stop our reliance on fossil fuels.
0	we ned to move on as quicklyas possible from relying on fossil fuels if we are to leave a liveable planet for those that come after us.
3	we need a better quality of debate over the issues.so many people have so many opinions that its hard to separate fact from fiction
0	we need a new normal. we have inherited another generations mode of operation that is not appropriate for the future.
0	we need a nudge to do the right thing
0	we need a planet for future generations
0	we need another more sustainable transport system which doesnt harm the environmentas much as fossil fueled cars
4	we need away to get to places
3	we need better sources of generating electricity and to develop ourinfrastructure before relying solel on electric transport
0	we need big steps even if drastic to control climate change
1	we need change to survive long by reducing polution
0	we need changeand a big one all we do is hope and action is our next step
0	we need old white men to stop profiting
1	we need solid policy actions for a safe climate future. but these need to be as equitable as possible
0	we need t rely more on public transport
1	we need to - and soon. i hope it will be
0	we need to act on climate change
0	We need to act on climate change.
1	we need to act on this to preserve the environment for future generations
1	we need to act with emidiate effect and not be pushed around by the money world. they have too many buts. if we ban we will find a new more sustainable way anyway. the human always does. there are ways. we just have to compremise for a while
0	We need to act. Ignoring the situation won't help anyone
1	we need to address our carbon emissions so Im optimistic but there crrently isnt enough incentive to switch to other modes of transport for the majority of people
0	we need to be better to our environment
1	we need to be creative to solve the problem of how to move food and people around. otherwise we need to go back to the quater acre section where peolpe grew there own food and traded or had a boring diet.
0	we need to care for our planet
1	we need to care for the planet so we leave a better place for our children and grandchildren
1	we need to care for this awesome planet
0	we need to change for the planet
1	we need to change or our mokopuna will suffer
0	We need to change the way we care for this precious world; the first step should be switching to renewable sources of fuel and energy
0	We need to change the way we use the limited resources of our planet
0	We need to change to alternative energy resources to ensure that future generations have an Earth to live and thrive on
0	we need to change to make ourearth happy and healthy
1	We need to change to protect our planet
1	we need to change. but batteries ib ev cars need sorting out
0	we need to clean up our air pollution
1	we need to consider carefully how to ensure everyone can afford it
0	we need to cut down our carbon emissions majorly and this would be such an incredible step. we do have the renewable energy sources to change so lets utilise that. (-:
1	we need to do all we can to detoxify our planet... and now
0	We need to do better for our chldren.
0	we need to do everthing we can to save our Mother
0	we need to do everything possible to stop climate chane lee leroux
1	we need to do more to help the planet
0	we need to do this for our childrens futures.
1	we need to do what is right not what is convenient
0	we need to drastically re think how we do things in order to protect our future
0	we need to end fossil fuels
1	We need to ensure we arent creating further issues for the environment.  If moving towards electric.  How is power generated stored disposal of batteries etc...
3	we need to find a fully sustainable alternative
1	We need to find better alternatives that dont rely on nonrenewable resources. We have many innovative people in Aotearoa so hopefully this will happen soon
0	we need to find new renewable sources of energy that are not harmful to the environment
1	we need to find practicable . and economical alternatives.
0	we need to focus on sustainable energy and reducing carbon emissions and polution
0	we need to for urr future
1	we need to get onto this as quick as posibble so we have a future
0	WE NEED TO GET RID OF PETROL CARS
1	we need to get rid of petrol in our world
0	we need to getrd of polluting cars fwe really want to make a change
0	we need to have a sustainable future
0	we need to have green cars
1	we need to in order to reduce our climate change inpacts.
1	we need to leave a legacy which doesnotrepresenttheapocolypse
0	We need to leave fossil fuels in the ground
0	We need to live locally. We dont need to travel now with the internet.
0	we need to livecloser to home.  in all things.
1	we need to look after our planet
1	we need to look at MDF plants spewing out steam that is the largest reason we have global warming next to dairy farming. MDF plants should condense their stam output direct it back to the rivers they take the water from in the first place
1	we need to look atalternative options notjust electriccars
1	we need to make a step change. the technology exists. we need to invest.
3	we need to make alternatives affordable for all
1	We need to make changes to create a sustainable world for eveyone and everything.
0	we need to move away from fossil fuels
1	we need to move away from fossile fuels.
0	WE NEED TO MOVE FASTER IN THIS PROCESS WITHHELP FROM THE GOVERNMENT TO MAKE IT AFFORDABLE FOR ALL IN NEW ZEALAND TO ACHIEVE THIS GOAL
0	we need to move past a system built upon non renuable resource consumption
0	we need to proctect or world
0	we need to protect our environment
1	we need to protect our fture
0	we need to protect our land
1	we need to protect our planet
1	we need to protect spaceship earthfirfuturegeb
0	we need to radically change if we want to slow climate change
1	we need to reduce carbom consumption
0	we need to reduce our carbon footprint and be healthier as humans using the bodies we have been given
1	we need to reduce the co2 emissions
1	we need to reduce the desire for capital growth  in the end it will denude the earth of its resources  enough is enough
0	we need to reverse te damage we have done
1	we need to save our beautiful planet
1	we need to save our planet
0	we need to save the enviroment.
0	we need to save the planet
0	we need to save the planet
1	we need to set a goal in order to achieve it
1	we need to simplify and take care so we can live here in years to come
0	we need to start making radical changes
0	we need to start reducing our carbon emissions
1	we need to start saving the animals  on are planet by not useing as much pollution that will kill the enviroment.if we keep this up ther will be no planet to live on! so start walking...
1	we need to start taking action against climate change.
1	we need to stop allpollution not just cars but businessesdestroying our land for white mans profit
0	we need to stop climate change or we die
1	we need to stop using a limited resource ( fossil fuels) for silly things such as transport when there are sustainable and renewable alternatives
0	we need to stop using petrol based cars to help curb global warming.
0	we need to strt making a difference for our kids future
1	we need to tackle global warming
0	we need to take action if we want a future
0	we need to take actions and not only wait...
1	We need to take Climate Change seriously
1	we need to try and preserve  what little is left of our natural world phasing out hydrocarbons is a step in the right direction
0	we need to urgently reduce our carbon emissions and slow down glbal warming to protect our taonga and planet
0	we need to use renewable sources of energy
0	We need to walk bike and bus more!
1	we need toconsider the enviromentforfuture generations
1	we need tomake a change   . younger generation see as norm to think about community not just self
0	we need toreduce emissions and transport emissions can readily be reduced by electric vehicles
0	we need toreduce our emissions before itstoolate
0	we need tostart putting planet beforeconenience and busiess
3	we need totake care of ourlands
0	we need tothink forward and stop beingharnful to every other species onthe planet.
1	we need totransform how humans live with our planet
1	We need totransition to better fuel sources for our planet
0	we need tp protect our planet for  future generations
1	we need transport and need to reduce our carbon emmisions cos I'm only 11
0	we need urgentaction on the climate crisis
0	we needto act now. dramatic lifestyle change is needed.
0	we needto do everythibg we cn to save our beautiful world
1	we needto protect ourenviroment and this is just one way
0	we never know what the future holds
0	we own an elecric car. It is amazing to drive. Powerful. Clean
1	WE R FACINGAN EXTINCTION LEVEL EVENT PEOPLE
1	we really need to be dong more and more quickly.
0	We really need to cut our cabon emissions drastically in order to survive as a species. Since petrol feuled carsemt a lot of carbon dioxide this would help greatly.
3	we rely on fuel everywhere and i think its too optimistic and it wont work
0	we should adapt to more sustainable power sources that doesnt produce waste
1	we should all be doing our part to benefit future generarions
1	we should all convert to bicycles short distances and lectric long distance
4	We should ban them today. W dont have eough time to dilly dally. If we started to spent the money_ we are currently spending on roads_ on improving our public transport instead _ we would be in a much better position by 2030
0	we should be doing everything to care for our lanet
1	we should be more proactive in making changes for the future
1	We should build a peaceful green land for our children.
1	we should cease using fossil fuels
1	we should do it and makea new vehicle with no petril
1	we should do what we can to save the planet
1	we should focson our future and careof our earth. New Zealand wold set an excellent example for the rest of the world. Make the future exciting!
0	we should focus on developing renewable energy and reduce our footprints. we are surrounded by oceans we should harness this energy for our electricity. Government should lead the way by giving consumers an incentve to purchase electric cars.
1	we should have ditched fossil fuels about five minutes after we found they were full of carcinogens
1	we should have electric cars  because of air pollution
1	we should have the technology and atan affordable price by then. and this is a good waytoreduce carbon emissions
0	we should help our birds so we donot live in a polloted world with no anamals
1	we should hve done it earlier to prevent global warming and extinction but ts still not too late
1	We should lower gas emissions and find better fuel alternatives. Hydro fuels from water should be promoted even though petrol companies wont agree.
1	we should make a water powered car
4	we should phase out progressively. bans do not usually work
1	we should reducce air travel to and from nz. air nz burns  jēt fūēl thāt prōdūcēs 3.5 milliontonnes of CO2 e / year a huge impact.
0	we should start making changes to save the planet. no matter the economic cost
1	we should start to reduce the use of oil or gas in order to decrease pollution
3	we should stillbe allowed to enjoy amerian classic cars as a hobby
0	we should stop extinguishing nature finity resources
1	we should take care of mama earth
0	we shuld use the money to nationwide the franchse one sushi
4	we still have car racing and muscle cars and drivers of those cars seem not to care
1	we still need fossil fuels to provide this.lets invest in more renewables first so we can sustain the electrical demand
1	we want to save our earth
0	We were legs for reason - to pedal!
3	we will all die befor that
1	we will find a way to sustain ourselves   instead of relying entirely  on gas fuel and coal
0	we will find much better and more sustainable means of transport that will helpus and the environment
1	we will have to change to save climate
2	we will just work around the idea
0	we will reduce a huge soure of polution
1	We would need to get passed the giant energy companies that only care about maximising their profits.
1	we wouldbe taking tangible action to address climate change
0	wehave only one planet . let s stop destroying it.
0	wehave to take care of our environment
2	well it batarys will be thrown away
1	well its obviously good.but im more concerned about the ramifications down the line of our vehicle choices.
3	well mia is a fat cheese burger chicken nugget eating pig ay
0	well they do cause a load of problems like polluting the air water and  food
0	wellington city could be completely car free and ruled by pedestrians
1	Wellington has started dotting around electric scooters and bikes to stop people using cars for short trips
0	wellington is takinga leadership role in climate change mitigation
4	weneed them to get around public transport is rubbish
2	Were all gonna die anyways. Global warming yaaay
0	were all gonna die at this rate
0	we're gonna save the planet!!! :)
0	we're in a climate emergency and need to act
1	we're in real trouble already. we must take ation now!
4	weshould stop theuse of cars because they are bd for theenvironment
0	weshouldfigureout a bettersutainable wayof life and what we use to fuelit
1	we've got so many ways to produce energy. USE THEM !
4	what about all the classic car owners and people who pull caravans or boats longdistances????
3	what about peopl who lack access to public trasportand cant afford new evs
3	What are we going to drive
1	what else can we do but feel hopeful?
3	what is next for progressives to ban? they will find something to shame us
3	what is the best solution to replace them
3	what will be left for the future genertion
4	what will happen to all the out sourced cars?
3	what will happen to those who have petrol cars
3	what will we do with all of the petrol cars? where does the waste go?
3	what will we do with out pettral cars
4	what will we generate the power with to charge the evs with ...coal?
2	what would  you replace it with. how much would it cost. where would you get the energy from.
0	Whatifthere were no roads only big geen parks and walkways the cities would be so much more beautiful  . redesign them so everything in th cente is close and accessible with underground pulic transport
0	whats going to comefrom theassociated technology beyondjust cars
4	whats going to feed the trees?
1	What's the point in using petrol when there's far more sustainable ways to transport ourselves from A to B lol
1	whats up how are you doing
1	when looking at the entire life cycle of an electric car we realize it also has a negative on our environment. Though it might be better than petrol cars. We sould keep a global thinking approach.
0	When private motor cars first became available for personal use, the shift from public transport to personal transport happened over night in many communities. I'm positive the transition back to public transport can also happen overnight.
1	When there is   love thereis hope
3	where are all the electric cars goibg to be charged.
3	where is all this power going to come from electricty is xpensive now for homes
3	where is the electricity to run alternative cars going to come from? the production of electricity in renewable ways does not produce the same energy in its life span than it does to produce the actually devices? RIP Stan Lee
3	where is the energy going to come from to produce and then power these cars  recycle the batteries?
3	where will you it put it. when you break them all
1	While it would be ideal. It feels unlikely
0	whilst having electric cars in the future; i do nt know this will actually occur.  walking may solve our problems but 2030 is too long away.
1	whist a great aspiration I am sceptical that this will actually occur
2	who can afford any other type of transport s wellas the cost of living
4	whos building thepower stations. what to do with toxic battery at end of life
2	why can w not select ourown option?
4	why did  people even make these kind of cars
0	why look for habitable places inspace when we should look after our own
4	Why not 2020? Make a change now! Make public transport more affordable. Change busses and trains to green alternatives.
1	why would we continueto use petrol cars when we know that electric carsare possible?
0	will be nice to have some space for cyclists and pedestrians again. And the air quality will improve
0	will create new options. my fear is if we dont enforce a circular full lifecycle return system for batteries to manufactuers then we may create a worse issue.
1	will help with stopping pollution oftheworld. can use electric cars instead.
1	will hopefully help the planet and stop or at least slow down global warming
0	will leave oil and other minerials in the ground to keep the world goig for a little bit longer for the future generations.
3	Will we have alternatives so we can absolutely ban petrol car by 2030 ?
0	wish it could happen right now
0	wish it was sooner.  i want to walk and jog comfortably without inhaling fumes.
1	With electric cars becoming more common the exsistense of petrol cars should slowly fadeout naturally creating cleaner air andless greenhouse gas emissions
1	With government driving this it might happen.
1	with petrol cars gone there will not be much smoke in the air
1	with proper sustainable solutions we can love and protect nz
1	with the mass production of ev cars we can exoect less fossilfule based vechicas #gogreen
3	with what we can replace them?
0	world be a safer healthier plcce .N o more wars over oil
3	worried a bit . no other means yet and ev are just jokes as it overall pollutes more and is nowhere an viable option.
1	Worried about the relatively low range and poor infrastructure support for full electric's. But I'm very optimistic about the prospects in the future. Hopefully the transition will be smoothe and we can take electrics down Arthur's Passand freedom camp in our Priuses
2	worried and angry in the knowledge the not even nz is doing enough action soon enough
1	Would be better forus all :)
1	would be good but probably not realistic
1	would be great but not sure if realistic
1	would be great to have less cars using petrol but 2030?
1	would be helpful in many ways such as reducing dependence on fuel
1	would helpreduce co2 emissions andstop over usig all natural resources
0	would reduce gas emissions and be very good for the enviroment :)
2	wtf its not good or bad
2	y do pertrol car need to be banned
0	yay i want flyingelectric vehicles please
0	yep cos bad pap charge us too much
1	yes and buy back  our electrical supply to own them ourselves
0	yes and everyone should walk everywhere
1	yes but we need a wider range of e cars... e bikes are already doing a great job on cutting down on petrol commuters.
0	Yes. Let's go hydrogen and electric (as well as those funky pedal cars from the Flintstones). We could totally do this if the government introduced consumer incentives, similar to those implemented in other countries, such as Norway.
4	you are all being brain washed by the united nations  left wing ideolgy its about time people woke up  this nnsense.  graham.
0	you run out of petrol so fast but electric cars don't
3	you should have more answer options
1	you sould helppople when theyneed help
4	YOUR MOTHER AND I GOOD JOB LUIS OH SHUT UP MIA
0	zero carbon future is where its at
2	ziya lives in a bush next to gal
2	ziya said that he mightget a friend one day so   i said dream on
