2	.Cats kill birds  becsuse of instincts... They follow their instincts like how we somtimes follow our gut. It is sad that cats kill birds but its another part of life and some owbers teach cats not to do that
4	444I LIVE IN AUSTRALIA AND HAVE A CAT THAT GOES IN THE BACKGARDEN AND DOESNOTLEAVE IT.HE IS SUPERVISED AND INDOORS WHEN WE GO OUT AND AT NIGHT.WE TRAINED HIM TO DO SO AND IT JUST TOOK PATIENCE AS HE WAS A REFUGE CAT ADOPTED AGE 4
3	a cat is an animal too and should not be live inside.how you would feel justliving in your house or flat without feeling the wind and fresh air
3	a cat is an anmal as well and needs freedom and space to live her natural instincts. not every cat is happy to stay at home. it can become a real torture for the cat
4	a cat is an outdoor animal and should live as it used to live
3	a cat should not only be kept indoor
0	a faint chance for our lizards and birds
0	A good step toward pest free NZ
3	A LOT OF people will be very sad and angry that they dont have their freedom of mind And it would be cruel for the cats to just keep then indoors. thats against cats natural behaviour
1	across the world cats destroy billions of birds. they bring comfort to thier owners no doubt but owning one is a selfish thng to do.
0	actually cats shoulnt be here at all letaloneindoors!
1	aint nothing but a heart break
2	all animals should be inside if u want them to not just cats
0	all cats shuld beindoors.  they are great pets butformidable predatorsof our wildlife
1	all feral cats be trapped and humanely  killed. all domestic cats be registered like dogs are ....must be inside after dark or there will be  a fine...repeated negligence leading to removal
1	all for the future of the environment
3	Although 1 million native birds being killed by cats is extremely high I disagree that they should be completely domesticated. If cats are forbidden to hunt so should humans
4	Although cats catch birds there areother ways to prevent them from doing this
3	although i get why. how would it ever be acheived.
3	Although not to the same degree as a dog a cat needs outdoor time and space to be happy. This restriction worries me as to where it may lead
3	ALTHOUGH THEY  KILL WILDLIFE THEY DO NEED TIME OUTSIDE ALSO.
3	Although this would make life better for other native wildlife like birds; it would make the qukity of the cat's life worse.
0	angry bc they need to go outside to have there own time
1	Animals are dying everyday for reasons that could have been avoided.
4	animals are not meant to live inside only
3	animals are to connect to its environment outdoor. Healthy for the animal .
1	animals in need because of exinction are more important to help than thehouse cat. enough pet cats lives inside already showing the possibility
3	Animals should have the same freedoms humans have - the freedom for fresh air and the outdoors
0	Anything that we all can do to protect native birds and animals is a step forward.
1	anything to save all species of life and ive them all a natural selection chance
4	Are nice pets but hunt are native birds and that they should be kept indoors.
1	as a veterinarian i would hope we valueall species
1	as i know some cats have gone back to wilderness in australia and its hard to handle. i hope that kind of measure wouldstop it from happening here
1	as wonderful as cats areto have as a pet they are a serious threat to our native wild life and making cats strictly an indoor pet would be very benificial
1	Australia has this problem. You dont need to
1	awarness of th danger cts  are causing native animals is increasing .
0	bad for our native animals even if they 'dont go anywhere' because they do
4	ban 1080 ivest in pest fences breeding ruru trapping and hunting. proof in poison free forests
4	ban cats and adopt a native bird instead.
4	bc cats shouldnt be traped nside
1	bcause cats killbirds wich meansthey will be in dangerd
0	beacause we dont want them to die
4	Beacuase alex the poo eat my face
4	beacuase they areadorable and they should be alowed to go outside
4	beacuse cats should be akodoutside fullstop no caps
3	becase  when they are pets they eat birds and
4	becase i hae a cat that loves to be indoor and outdoor
3	becase i have a cat and it pretty hard to just leave your cat inside cause  they can just pee in your house when you gone somwhere
1	BECAUE OUR WILD LIFE IS VERY IMPORTANT AND WE NEED TOPROTECT IT.
1	because  cats are killing animals live and we have to do somthing
4	because  that is the run of the natur
2	Because animals deserve to go outdoors
4	because animals lived on this planet before us and we humans took over the land sothey should have freedom
3	because birds should be protected. cats are domesticated and can thrive indoors
4	because catos just wanna be catos innit bruv
3	Because cats are an outdoor species naturally
0	because cats are everywhere else in the world. why not leave one country for birds?
3	Because cats are hard to keep contained.
0	because cats arepets n can live indoors. protect natural wildlife first.
1	because cats decimte the native birds and animals when left to roam
1	because cats eat all da birds
3	Because cats have an instinct to hunt
0	because cats like to be warm
4	because cats natural place is also outside
4	because cats need space to run around
2	because cats need to be outside nt fair tokeeptheminside
4	because cats should stay wild andfr ee
1	because cs kill ur native birds
4	because every kind of life should be respected
0	because fewer birds will be killed
1	because i do not like pets outdoor
2	because I don't have a cat.
4	because i dont like my cat. therefore i would appreciate if he was outside away from me
3	because i dont want my kittens to be stuck inside the whole time
3	because I dont want our unique birds becoming extict
0	because i feel sorry for birds
1	Because I have seen footage of cats taking birds from their nests in the night. The problem is real and it exists. We have a focus on predator free in NZ but the public needs to be educated as to the impact of there fluffy household pets.
4	because I love birds more than cats
0	because i love our native birds
2	because Iam not alowed a pet
0	because if it is like this in 50years then therare no birds in nieuw zealand
4	because in the wild they would still kill birds and not have the option of being indoors STOP MESSING WITH NATURE. DESEX FERALS overpopulation is te issue!!!!!
2	Because it hasn't really affected me. I don't want cats killing native life but I also think we need a better idea rather than keeping then in door pets only.
4	Because it iis bad for the eviorment
4	because it is cats  nature to hunt birds and i know it is bad that native birds are getting killed but we cant make them do anything
0	Because it is safer for the cat and for birds!
1	because it will save the birds!
0	Because it’s worthy of all new zealanders
3	because its a free animal also
2	because its not fair to leave them in side
3	because its not the natural habitat of cats.
1	because just only inside so it must be safe
3	because many bird species are in trouble
0	Because my sister likes them and like fluffy things
1	because of biodiversity which is uniqu
1	because of the damage they do to the native wildlife
3	Because of you have written that cats kill a million native birds every year and need to be indoor pets. To me, cat's are natural hunters an they enjoy hunting birds very much because they are natural hunters. I believe cat's need to spend time out side because that is a very large part of their natural life style.
0	because our birds are our land and more and me go exstinced a lt and the more we os h ess beautifule
1	because our native birds and other animals need more protection
0	because people can still enjoy having them around at the same tiime as native birds
0	because rthey kill to many birds etc
0	because so many birds die and it tost
3	because some cats  like to be wild
0	because t will help ou native animals
3	because the likelyhood of them staying indoors is low. what will happen to them if they're denied access to their habitat? they may aswell just be dead if they can't do wht they were born to do
1	because then cats wont be exitinct
0	because then they cant kill native wildlife
4	because there meant to be outside
2	because theu usemy garden as one big toilet
3	Because thewild is there natural habitat but its also scary for the nativebirds
0	because they  kill our wild life.i  live in Melbourne A ustralia we have parrots rosellas kming parrots  visit our deck  daily it gives us so much pleasure
3	because they ae meant to go outside
3	because they also have a right like every other animal to be outside
0	Because they are a danger to our native manu
0	Because they are a pest and are killing native birds
0	because they are a plague and kill the original species
4	because they are animals not robots
0	because they are annoying and poo in our yard
1	because they cant kill the birds
0	Because they do not go out side
2	because they do what they want so reason is that they do have their own thing its like if wewere to kill anything but if theydid its another story so can you give me a good explaintion why they have to be inside pets what if we were only allowedto stay inside without leaving xd
2	because they have their own rihts
1	because they kill birds and i like birds
0	because they kill lots of animals each year
1	because they kill lots of native birds. However as long as they have a bell or sommmthig to warn birds it should be ok. It  is more the feral cats  or cats that get dumped are the problem so we should work on that rather than pets
0	because they kill millions of birds. any questions left?
3	because they kill the nature. we love
0	because they kill toomany ntive birds
1	because they poos in our garden.
4	because they shoudnt be kept inside 24/7
3	because they should also be able to play outside and have like human instead of being couped  up all day
3	because they will get too hot
1	because they wont kill  other animals
4	because theyshould have the right to rome freely and brethefresh air
0	because we cant stop them from hunting
0	Because we need to protect the birds of Nz
1	Because we need to protect the native animals.
0	because you will be able to save the birds
0	Becausecats are bad animals. get a dog
4	becauseits ourfault and the well being of all animals needs to be considered
1	best for the cats and native wildlifes wellbeing
1	better for the cat and better for wildlife
0	better life for the cats and native animals
1	birds are an essential part of the ecosystem.
0	BIRDS ARE BETTER THAN CATS AND CATS HAVE NO SOULS.
0	birds are precious and i would miss them if they were gone
1	birds areprecious and cats iare finewith plenty of stimulation and companionshipaslong as this is what they were used to
3	birds do not harn lots of thing they just harm bugs
0	birds have beenthere longer than cats
3	BIRDS OF PREY ARE PREDITORS DO WE ERADICATE THEM TOO?
1	bitches all on my dick  everyday peperoni nipples
1	breed cats to not be hunters.
4	bruh you forreal ? I love ny cat bro thats some bs
3	cant leave windows and doors open
1	cars are animals with wild instincts and needs too that needs to be considered. however a change and balance to protect other wild life is necssary and definitelypossible
4	cars are outside animals and natually hunt everything from birds rats mice insects and lizards to keep them indoors is cruel and wrong
1	cat are a threat to the wildlife. also nobody likes their cat to go missing
2	cat are better than dogs anyway
3	Cat are outdoor pets... better dont have them at home.
4	Cat are very important for pest control. I live in the forest and have two cats which bring in several rats and mice each week we very rarely see rhenwith a bird.
3	cat aren't as well trained indoors i have got a cat.
4	cat have thier rights and so do we !cat love out doors
4	cat is an animal an prefer to leave outside.
0	cat kill lotss of native birds
0	cat owners should be responsible for our wild life. DOG owners are encouraged to be why not the same for cats!!!
4	cat should be alowed outside because the birds should just stay away from cats
1	cat should be inside before night fall to protect ildlife
0	catio cat patio gives them outdoor time (controlled out door time) and doesn't endanger the cats or the native animals.
4	catios are a perfect option to give cats the fresh air and outdoors they deserve while also protecting wildlife. cats do not deserve to be killed or trapped indoors.
4	cats  are also known to kill large numbers of rats and mice that do more damage. making cats indoor animals is cruel. work with cat owners to reduce bird deaths. research collars etc
4	cats ae natrually outside creatures . it is  cruel to keep them inside
0	cats affect the bird  population and kill them for no reason
2	Cats also deserve to be happy and hunt. Indoor cats quickly become as bored and lazy as people neglect them.
4	cats also get rid of rats
1	cats also have a right to be outside but if te native birds are endangerd it should be considerd as an option
4	cats also have the right of freedom
4	Cats also hunt other predators of birds. Controlling cats without controlling them too is unlikely to mean fewer birds are killed.
3	Cats also kill other predators of birds. What happens to stoat or rodent numbers if you take cats out of the picture?
2	cats also need sme time outside ad nside time at night
3	cats also need the oppurtunity to go outside
3	cats also need to be outside
1	cats and humans live comfortably together and theres no need fir cats to hunt for food outside the home.
1	cats are a huge threat to nz birds so anything to reduce this threat is awesome. we dont want to lose our special wildlife!
1	Cats are a loved pet in NZ. And help keep rats down. But have an impact on native animals.
1	cats are a major issue . and particularly with litters of kittens being dumped in rural areas
0	cats are a menace  for our wild life
0	Cats are a pest and should be treated as such. On the farm where we live miles from anywhere we are constantly seeing cats running around.
1	Cats are a threat to native species. You can also walk cats on leads and build outdoor enclosures for them if they need to be outside.
0	cats are adaptable creatures. owning and caring for multiple cats indoors only can offer very happy and fulfilling lives to these lovely cretures. more people should be educated about how to do this. it will help save our indigenous and endangered species.
3	Cats are also animals and shouldnt be made to feel enclosed or trapped. They are naturally a wild species so should have the ability to exercise that right. The issue is not with the cats it is with the human species overbreeding and domesticating them.
3	cats are also animals who naturally gooutside. why should they suffer inside? maybe they should have restricted areas withanet.
4	Cats are amazing and deserve the right to go out.
0	Cats are amazing pets but unfortunately they killoff so many birds every year. We need to protectwhat is ours.
3	cats are animal that love tohunt and explore in the dark. we are already changing their nature by keeping them inside... isn't that what we want to avoid?
4	cats are animals not just pets. They deserve to be outside to exhibit their natural instincts.
4	cats are animals that are suposed to be outside and  hunt. thats just the way of nature.
4	Cats are animals that thrive in nature as do all animals
4	cats are animals too we cant keep hem inside thats cuelt. cats just like dogs and other animals deserve to have their time inthe sun if we lock them inside theyll missbehave and go crazy from cabin fever wouldnt you
4	cats are animals too. people brought them here. people need to look after them. itis cruel to keep cats entirely indoors.  keep cats indoors at night.
3	cats are animals with rights too. maybe just at nightbinside
3	cats are animals. as the other ones they deserve to be free and enjoy nature. We cant broke the circle of life
3	cats are animals. no species should live indoor only.
0	cats are assholesand kill things or fub
1	cats are awesome but dont belong here
1	cats are awful to the enviroent in general. to preserve the bio diversity they must be controled better
0	cats are B A D !!!:(
1	cats are beautiful animals and friendly  companions in our homes but they are  hunters threatening many species.
1	Cats are becming more aggressive as they are allowed to ram unsupervised outdoors.  Either the should be zoo inhabitants or restricted  withn supervised human homes.  Any found outside should be captured and if necessary euthanized if oos or owners cannot be found.
4	cats are born to kill birds
0	cats are both cute and dangerous. only because we adore them doesnt mean we should let them destroy NZs environment. keep them inside to protect our wildlife
0	cats are carnivores. lock them up
2	cats are cool and they kill lots of other pests . my cat is lazy so he chill
0	cats are cute and i have 3. they indoor only and if they do go outside they are on leash
0	cats are cute bt need to be reduced and controlled!
1	cats are cute but they are also predators.
3	cats are descebdebts of big cat
0	Cats are designed to kill so this is the only way.
4	Cats are disgusting! They poop everywhere! Leave them OUTSIDE!
1	cats are everywhere birds aremore important
1	Cats are evil and should never be allowed outside.
0	cats are evil. They are the spawn of satan!
1	Cats are ferociouspredators and as much as they deserve to roam free  i think they should  only do so around supervision or after theyve been  trained
0	cats are fun but there is too great an impact on nativewildlife
3	cats are going to be needlessly killed if they run away from home  or are born in bad situations
1	Cats are good but so are birbs and deth is bad
3	cats are good. screw gareth morgan
1	cats are great animals but are really destructive to other animals and plant life if they are allowed to run wild
0	Cats are great but they'll always be around. Our native birds will not. It's an easy choice in my opinion.
1	cats are happy inside and should nt be allowed out to harm naive birds
1	cats are healtheir. live longer and saves birds from being eaten by them.  protect birds & cats.
0	cats are horrible pets. they are selfish
3	Cats are hunters so why would we prevent them from hunting?
0	cats are hunters. to let them outside invites them to hunt whatever prey is availablr. as always it is the owners fault and responsibility not the animal
0	cats are introduced and we should protect the wildlife unique to new zealand
3	cats are jus cats u know what i mean?
0	Cats are killers. having them indoors is the least we could do
1	cats are killing lots ofthe native species
0	cats are killing our nativefauna. this muststop
4	cats are life .what about mittens???!!!!!!!! try telling him to stay home.no
0	cats are made for indoors or not at all.  i donotlike to be near  them at all!!!!
3	cats are meant to roam andhunt. an indoor cat is a stressed animal. why do that to an animal
3	cats are meant to roam outdoors
4	cats are myfavourite animals and they need to play utside
1	Cats are natural born killers...even your favourite moggie. Its in their DNA to hunt. If you care for the birdlife insects anything that moves around your home you need to take steps to confine the cat.
4	cats are natural predators as are birds. its called an ecosystem. natures way of natural selection
3	cats are naturally born outdoor animlas totake away their natural way of living would be wrong..
3	cats are naturally outdoor animals and i believe it is cruel to keep them inside. nz needs better ways to protect ournative birds without making other anmals suffer
3	Cats are naturally outdoor animals. This would be cruel.
3	Cats are naturally outdoor animals. To take their natural freedom from them is inhumane.
4	cats are natures perfect predators...but we spend all day dressing then up and blowing raspberries on their tumtums so no wonder they get angry and eat ourbirds.
4	cats are nice thay should be in the world(:
3	cats are not fit to live only inside. it would be better to entirely ban them where necessary
3	cats are not just indoor pets they also need to go outside.
1	Cats are not native so pose a threat on natural wildlife
0	Cats are not native to New Zealand. They destroy the wildlife.
1	Cats are not native to NZ and they cause damage, so we need to be careful how they affect our environment
3	cats are outdoor animals. but maybe  they should be limite to going outside but still can. cats should be shut in at night as that is their hunting time. x
4	Cats are outdoor creatures just asmuch as birds are
1	cats are pedators and causesignificant damage toour eco system
0	cats are pests and we should hunt them to save the birds
1	Cats are powerful predators and we need a culture of keeping cats indoors.
4	cats are predators and it's not their fault  birds are enndangered.
1	cats are predators and shouldb insideonlyand neutered/spayed all of them!! NO EXCEPTIONS!!!
1	Cats are pretty nice as pets and are self grooming. They spebd a huge majority of their day sleeping so they are quite chill to have. Though they need to be monitored since they may knock things over.
2	cats are rubbish pets get a doggo instead.
1	cats are shitheads and should stay inside or on a lead the little cunts
3	cats are so used to being out side that  it would just be wrong
0	cats are spawns of the devil
2	cats are stij stinky i dont wantt hem iny hone in yhome buit i likevird birds
0	cats are stupid and stink. fuck off cats!!!
1	cats are such devastating predators and any effort to reduce their impact will do a world of good
4	cats are supposed to be outside ts in their genetics to hunt ad lay in the sun
1	cats are terrble pests cat owners outsource their distructive pest/pets on the public and should be charged
0	cats are terrible predators for natural wildlife and can do more harm than good
4	Cats are the best animals in the world
0	cats are the single greatest threat to native birds. they do not belog out of doors under any circumstances!
0	cats are the worst. they kill native animals here and in aus. they should be banned outright.
0	cats are uncontrolable. they are a pet; a luxury. not a necessity. though people may see it as cruel to keep a pet indoors. they do notbelong here. survival of our birds is more important. if you dont agree dont buy a cat
1	cats are unfortunatly destructive. even when wellfed
3	cats are used to be outside!  but we could make thing for the cat where when they go intu special zones they get an electrik schock that isnt to hart and the onerw gets a message on the Phone
0	cats are useless pets and feral by nature
3	cats are very active and should be abke tolive in theirnatural environment. My cat is happiest outside where he belongs
0	Cats are very cute animals but as they are threatening native species they really should stay home
0	CATS ARE VORACIOUS KILLERS OF NTIVE ANIMALS.
2	cats are wild animals and the yare also pets
3	cats are wild animals. they do not belong locked indoor. this is no sollution. stop getting cats as pets!!!
0	cats arent cool up the dogs
0	cats as non native species shoud be kept inside and desexed. without these steps nothing will change.
3	Cats being indoors will cost more recource and createdemand further polluting our planet and driving indestry. Sometimes the biggest sacrifices require the strongest wills...
0	cats belong indoors since they are not native .
3	cats belong outside as they are natural predators
4	cats benifit farmers and their grains by reducing vermin.
1	cats can be raised easily indoors
2	cats can do what they want
0	cats can live happily indoors andthis will prvent them killin native birds and animals
0	cats can live indoors.  outside they catch birds.
4	cats can rome if they want
3	CATS CAN WEAR COLLARS WITH BELLS IN ORDER TO ALERT WILDLIFE BEFORE THEYARE TRAPPED
0	cats cause damage because humans introduced them. its up to humans to stop them.
1	Cats cause so much damage to our ecosystems!
3	cats contributeto the natural selection process of birdspecies
4	cats deserve the right to freedom
1	Cats destroy native wildlife aand are driven by instict to hunt especially at night. If cat owners are animal lovers they should have no problem agreeingto havingtheircats indoors and preserving our nativefauna
0	CATS DESTROY WILDLIFE AND THE ENVIRONMENT AND SHOULD ONLY BE ALLOWED INSIDE
0	Cats do hunt down birds and poop in my garden when they should be staying inside!
0	cats do not belong in nz and are a destructive pest that threatens precious natives
0	cats do not belong in nz nature
0	Cats dont belong here. theyre a relatively easy to fix manmade problem.
0	cats dont need to feed on endangered birds to live and can thrive indoors  only. they can upset natural ecosystem
1	cats eat bird they bad people
1	Cats eat birds and should be indoors.
0	cats eat native birds and can be hit by cars outside
3	cats enjoy being outside it is in ther ature to hunt
0	cats evevn socalled house cats are wordwide athreatening vor wildlife especially birds. I  chase every cat daring to enter my gardenand would be grateful if there would be not cats running around
4	cats have a rightti live outside and hunt. thats nature!!! we should rather get rid of dogs!!!
0	cats have alongerlife and aresafer if kept indoors only.  In order tokeeptheir minds and bodies active it can take some thought.  Chek nto the Indoor CAT Initiative website for excinfotgeevidencescientificallyevidence based nformation on this
0	Cats have contributed in endangering kiwi birds. Cats are pests like possums
3	cats have rights to be outside; we should try and limit the damage they can cause instead of making them fully indoors
4	cats have same rights as birds
3	cats in nz have always been free roaming. it will be hard for them to adjust.
1	Cats instinctively kill birds and we need to afford our manu active protection.
0	cats invade collective outdoors without regard for native species.
3	cats just wanna be chillin bro
1	Cats kill a lot of birds and become feral cats
0	cats kill birds everywhere not only nz
3	cats kill birds. it is a natural phenomenon.
1	Cats kill for fun.They don't need to  kill to eat
0	cats kill for sport and endanger smal birds
1	CATS kill local and native wildlife which brings down their numbers
1	cats kill native species. They must be kept away
0	cats kill precious birs and should be stopped
0	cats kill too many native animals
1	cats kill.native birdlife. they are predators. keep them indoors.
0	cats killed my birdlife in masterton  ...cats are out of control...l had to fence and registermydogswho never hurt anything...ln western australia cats have to be kept inside overnight...
0	cats killing mass of birds tc
0	Cats kills too many birds. They should be kept inside or at least have a bell on their collar to make hunting harder. Also indoors cat live longer
4	cats like going outdoors and theywould not be happy indoors  and not snugle with their owners.
1	cats live longer indoors as well. its better for both species
0	Cats make excellent indoor pets and should be kept on this way. It is the only responsible way to keep them
0	cats make me  secial kindof excited
3	cats might get tired always inside.
3	Cats must go outside, it's their nature
3	Cats must go outside, it's their nature
3	cats must not be shut upinside. develop a management pan that will keep cats healthy abnd protect birds. eg bells
3	cats need an outside space but restricted so they are not a threat to wildlife they dont kill people like dogs can if uncontrolled
3	Cats need exercise and to roam. You can easily out a collar with bell on to stop hunting.
3	cats need space to explore. it is harmful and cruel to keep them in small captivity
4	cats need to be free and have some outside time to have fun
0	cats need to be indoors to keep native wildlife safe
0	cats need to beoutdoors bcos its part of their nature
1	cats need to eat but that food isint  native wildlife
3	cats need to engage with the outsid world. it is unnatural and cruel to keep them insid all day
4	cats need to get fresh air and not be treated like zoo animals
3	cats need to go out sometimes for their health but perhaps only in daylight
3	cats needt g ooutside fora happyand heakthy lifestyle. theyneed exercise and freedomjustlike us. yiu can just put a bell on them
3	cats neexd to be in the fresh air too
1	cats ofteb kill birds and do not eat them so it is a waste. they could live happy lives inside.
1	Cats only live here for our pleasure - we should value native nature more
0	cats probably started the  corona virus aswell smug little pricks
2	cats r cool and birds are too
3	cats r cool. rules r drool
0	cats r ruinng nz native birds....they eat them 4
3	Cats remain partially domesticated only; unlike dogs. They do have a wild spirit and behavior. I do understand the conservationist aspect of your reasonning but I also worried about cats' wellbeing and natural behavior..
3	Cats shold nt be held inside like in a prison. they need their freedom
1	cats shoud die cuz they r shit
3	cats shoud not be contained but we shoud whack them more
4	cats shoud share the world with human beings as the world must cover everything.ANY  species have their right living in the world. not a cave like human house.
3	cats should b outside too. make them wear bells
4	cats should be abe to chilloutside fr. like free my homie te cat
3	cats should be able to go outside
3	cats should be able to roam freely althouhg so should birds so i am worried about the conflict
4	cats should be able to roam in and out
3	CATS SHOULD BE ABLETO ROAM FREELY
0	cats should be banned indoor only is mean
0	cats should be chipped desexed registered and kept indoors
1	cats should be declawed andneutered. they should then be allowed to die out.
3	cats should be free but native animals are very important.
2	cats should be free if they want to be.
4	cats should be free to go out and in
3	cats should be free. what are dogs meant to chase?????
2	cats should be indoor and outdoor animals. no one should only be allowed just  inside or just outside. cats have feelings too.
0	Cats should be indoor animals and/or taken for walks on leash or in contained enclosures
0	cats should be indoor animals. they also pollute soil when the deficate..
0	cats should be indoor only to protect native birds
0	cats should be indoor pets to protect our native birds !
0	cats should be indoor pets. wē nēēd tōprōtēct ōūr bīrdlīfē
1	CATS SHOULD BE INSIDE BECAUSE THEY KILL BIRDY
1	cats should be kept indoors  they arenot unique whereas many of the birds that they kill are unique to NZ aone
1	cats should be kept indoors to protect native animals
2	cats should be kept inside because of the killing of native birds but then cats are annoying and get fur everywhere sooooo yeah fuck that
1	cats should be keptinside or contained in outdoor enclosures.
0	cats should be only be allowed in doors
4	cats should be outside so they can play
4	cats should be radicated from the island
4	cats should beable to explore the outdoos aswell  butmaybe indoors at night time only
3	cats should have the freedon toe xplore
3	cats should have their  outdoor space too
0	cats should live inside for their safty and other animls safty
0	Cats should not be able to roam freely if you are a responsible pet owner - not only is t damaging to the natural wildlife by letting them roam free but it also is bad pet ownership. Cats like all pets should be kept inside.
4	cats should not be allowed in houses
0	cats should not be allowed out  thēy kīll too much widlife
1	cats should not be allowed to roam around killing animals
0	cats should not be outdoor pets
2	cats should romefrealybutwe dont want the population to go down
0	Cats should stay only in the house and taxes should be raised for cathoulders.
0	cats shouldnt be allowed as pets .erradicat
0	cats shouldnt be in nz at all
3	cats shouldnt be indoor animals if nz wants to ge rid of them its better to spey/castrate all current ones and not let others in
4	Cats shouldn't be kept like prisoners
3	cats shouldnt have to live a life of confinement but then birds should be safe prom these predators so no winning either way.
3	cats sould learn to not  to kill thibgs
0	cats souldjust learn to stay inside! GEEZ!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
0	cats suck and they should be kept inside cause they kill wildlife and poo in other peoples property and are cunts
1	cats survive as house pets. birds need protection.
0	cats trive indoors with afriendly owner who is then ignored
1	cats will learn to take over
0	cats would eat you if they were big enough. plus they kill more pleasant creatures. they make me sneezeand scratch you. cat genocide is a fantastic idea
0	cats would tear you apart if they could
0	Cats, Dogs and all other domesticated pets should be banned as they are a massive carbon footprint, especially large dogs.This is a step in the right direction.
0	cats.....have youseen themovie???? they should stay inside
3	catslike toexplore thejungles plus how are we all meant to pat mittens
4	catto wabt to kill ur ratto uwu
4	catto wants outside or it get fatto
1	cause a cat can destroy and kill or eat something wrong and get sick.and my dog doesnt pee in my neighbours garden
3	cause her neck swallowed her chin
2	cause rilees chin and neck ur one thing
1	cause some cats struggle staying outside. they donot always feel good about being outside
4	cause there are animals and its in their nature to be out .
3	cause they love to run outsde as well and enjoy the sun
4	cause they would scracth our couch
1	cayts  are not cute and cudly they are hunters and there are too many  ōf them in NZ
1	cies are nativCats although a common house pet for many do tend to kill native animals. I believe it is most important to protect species endemic and native to NZ before protecting and favouring those introduced Cats can survive almost anywhere in the world. Native species cannot
1	city cats are ok but if we lived rural near native bush would definitely keep them indoors at night
1	coeito action.This could be a verygood idea but cats are the kind of pets that need execise and time outdoors so maybe a specific 'cat only' area in each suberb. I think that it would help widlife (particuarly birds) to recover as well and we do really need more ideas like this.
1	Collarcams and poo studies show owners only see a tiny fraction of what their cats catch - even well fed, belled cats - plus indoor cats, and their owners, are healthier https://theconversation.com/one-cat-one-year-110-native-animals-lock-up-your-pet-its-a-killing-machine-138412
3	collars for residential areas. And no cats around native areas
3	Confining cats to a life indoors is not natural. However I believe that cat owners need to be responsible re having their cats desexed and keeping them indoors at night
0	conservation efforts that are so strong elsewhere trapping etc. are undermined if cats aren't included
0	conserving our native species is very important
1	controlling cat breeding would be better
3	cos the cats are living on the plate too
2	could you imagine being locked insde all day
4	CRUEL FOR CATS NOT TO BE ABLE TO ENJOY OUTSIDE LIFE. THIS IS PART OF THEIR BEING. BREEDING PROGRAM FOR BIRDS WILL ASSISTWITH THE PRODBLEM.
0	cul. licence. desex pets. keep at home in catery. micro chip tag. fines if caught outside. flog the owners.
0	cus  i am hete with my friend with no one it usz
4	denying instinctual behaviours for an animal. If concrned about conservation of wildlife use bells or light on collar
3	destroying native wildlife is a worrying issue. it should be taken in acount seriuously.
0	dhdhdhhdhhfhhdfedhfyhdhhAHSJDBCBCUVvsjcjhfjddfhgdgdgdgdghfhfjgjgjgjfjfhdgdgsgsfssgdhdhfjkfjjf sbd ndj ddhdjdhdhddhdhdhdhdhd dhdhdceevicigbidffbufdd d$$;$-$-_;_- $+$7_+&_-$;$8:(#+$+$-__-__-_+  &8& -#77 dgffffgfgf+3746453621*&":!___363;3$#&#+848&ddudgefjfjgfhdegtgddddhdhfhfc jddhdgddfhfgfyyrueeosdfggrgryryryfgfgdheowidhfhyryrvf fheehefhfffy ffhfhfgdheddgfgffgffbhhdhfyfhfufyryryfyfyfrhufyeedfggftrrtwhfjjvufdgg
1	do we really need cats ........ lets train them to only killrenald the rats
0	do you know myra                                                                 my right nut
3	does that mean any cat in cat family so yall want tigers in your home??
2	dogs a mans best friend. cats dont need us
4	dogs and all animals can be inside not just cats
1	Doing something that has a chance to benefit the cat as well as create an opportunity for other species seems a positive solution.
0	domestic animals are unecessarilydamaging ourenvironment SHOUDBE INDOORSBORBANNEDALTOGETHER
1	domestic animals should stay in their environment
3	domestic cats would not be happy to be kept indoors especially at night. they are nocturnal by natre
3	Domesticated cats are not even saboteurs of nature
0	Domesticated cats dont belong outdoors as they either hurt themselves or fight with other cats
4	domesticcats are notgoing to decimate bird populations but government decisions to coverforests with highly toxic poisons are . so how aboutwe keepthese people locked up
4	dont be so stupid.GET RID of rats stoats possums rabbits FIRST
2	dont care. still dont care. i dont care
3	dont demonise resonsible pet ownership.cats more ikely to hunt at nght. keep them in at night
4	dont hold a cat if it cant stroll around itis also an animal with needs so just dont  be that selfish to hold a cat in new zealand
1	Due to thedomestic nature of modern cats refrainingthem from the outdoors seemslike a win-win situation.
4	each n every one have a right to live
1	Endangered animals need to be protected
3	epeople will need educating to provide for cats species specific needs indoors eg enrichment diet toys cat trees heat pads litter boxes cat body language etc to ensure they arent suffering . supported by qualified clinical animal behaviorists eg hannah sadgrove
3	established outdoors cats would not be happy and theywould be sad
3	even pets should have the right to some freedom
0	even though I love cats they dont belong in NZ as they pose a threatto our beautiful fauna
4	every animal has a righ to live everywhere it wants
0	every cat needs supervision. apart from mittens. hesthe king of wellington
0	every little help counts if that is going to stop the native fauna from disappearing
3	everyone deserves to be outside so they can have  fresh air like we humans dohow would you feel if we werent allowed to go outside and hade to stay in for ever. I DONT THINK THAT WOULD BE VERY NICE AND I DEFFINITLY  KNOW THAT I WOULD NOT LIKE IT
1	Feral cats are a huge problem all over the world. If people want to keep them as pets it should be their responsibiliy to prevent native animals coming to harm
4	ferral cats can be culled but well feed domestic cats should NOT be kept inside
1	for protection of native endemic species
0	for purpose of protecting birds in native environment in NZ
4	freeits really sad that humans have introduced predators to begin with now from trying to protect other animals from them it is the animals that are suffering. cats should be allowed the right to roam free as much as any animal. humans need to learn a lesson
4	Get rid of cats altogether #dogperson
0	give it giggsy till end of the season
0	give space to the threatened bird life. control our pets as they are domesticated and owned by us.
2	good for all  cat s prefer to watch tv insid
0	great  idea keep them out of my garden
2	great at pest control. benefit vs cost
1	Great idea but near impossible to implement. Might as well ban cats and dogs off-leash to preserve our fauna (easier)
1	great idea for cats to stay inside during the day
1	hard to  do but important to protect birds
0	Having a pet is a big responsibility. And if dogs are not allowed to wander ouround unsupervised then cats shouldnt either. They damage our ecosystem too much.
0	honestly cats overpopulate nz and destroy our native species...whēn āllōwēd tō roam freely
1	hopeful means that you hope for something
1	hopeful that people take responcibility.   i think if we spade our cats it will lead to less wild cats.  wild cats i guess kill more native birds than domestic cats
1	hopefully my tests comeback negative for coronavirus
1	hopful that we can stop the extinction of more species.
1	how do you feel about this idea
0	how many birds would still be killed if cats all had bells and collars?   is that an accetable number?
3	how practical is it?  Technologyshoudbelooked at and funded ie wearable devices to prevent cats catching birds
3	humans are not just inside as well everyone sould have the option to go outside
4	humans are the biggest prblem of this world NOT animals
4	humans do more damage to wild life than cats.
4	Humans should not dictate the life a cat should have. Neither should they interfere with the natural food chain process. Quality of life for the cat is an important factor especially when one of 5 animal needs to meet if you own an animal is to let them exhibit natural behaviour
3	humans wont be ableo control sneaky rats
4	HUMEN SHOULD NOT DECIDE ABOUT OTHER LIFE BEINGS LIFE
0	i  think cats are a wasre of space. our heritage is far too precious.
1	I  think it's a good idea!
3	I  think it's unrealistic. It will take a generation to changethe habits and love affairs of a lifetime.
3	I  think no living creature should be locked up in a house.
1	I  think that it should be kept inside because it could be danngerous for the birds.
3	I  THINK THAT WE SHOULD KEEP OUR NATIVE BIRDS PROTECTED
0	i  think you should kill them all
1	I  want to eat Japanese food.
1	I agree cats should be kept indoors around reserves and bush
4	i am angry    that cats aretaking our birds away from the   clouds and nector.
4	i am angry becauselots of valuable and cute birds were wiped out because the human population'
4	i am angry that cats are taking our bird to take away the clouds necter to helpus see our sky. i do not like cats are eating our birds birds help us alot.
2	i am being photographed without my consent
3	i am conflicted I love our birds and encourage them to my garden with native species etc. BUT I  also enjoy my feline companion. there must be a way  to allow both to exist. A  high tec but safe collar??to distract or emit an unpleasant sound to disrupt cat from its prey.
2	i am getting corona virus as i touch this machine -
1	I am hopeful about this idea
1	i am hopeful and i think we should have fences in are garden so they dont kill any dirds
1	i am hopeful because i like birds
1	I am hopeful because then the bird popultion can recover and the cats won't have to get hurt.
1	I am hopeful but only if it is proven to be a happy and healthy life for cats
1	i am hopeful when i see the growing talk n art that new zealaders are having about their native history
1	i am hopefull becuasi do not like war.
0	i am intrested if it works;)
2	i am mostly on ceep cats inside and  do hope that is what will happen.
2	i am not from around here so dont care
2	i am not from around here so i dont care
3	i am sorry for  the dogs. thyare better friends
4	I am very triggered when liberals infringe on my rights
3	i am worried becaues we need birds for to take necter from clouds for seeing our sky. i do not thik it is ok only becaues i say cats a predertes or wiled but if it has a owner it will be fed good so that is my worrys
3	i am worried because we  need birds to take nectare from clouds for seeingour sky.ī dō nōtlīkē cāts ēātēnbīrds būtīf īthādā ōwnēr īt shōūld bē fēd rēālly gōōd.
3	I am worried for the native birds as they are so important to our country. Although i think that making cats only indoor is also unfair on them.
3	I Believe animals need outdoors for survival and happiness. a solution would be an area branching from the house for the cat to still have the comfort of being outside (the area being enclosed). we as humans can benefit it too. we can harvest plants without worry of birds.
4	i believe the children are our future
1	i belive it would be a good idear because cas case so much harm to our native wildlife. cats are also an introduced spesices and ts nt fairon native wild lif if e let them hunt. or atlesat make sure all cas wear blls and stay in at ngth.
3	I cannot see cats staying inside.Best to make sure ALL cats wear bells
2	i dislike animals and animals dislike me. bye felisha . Humans are alrady annoyinh animals
1	I do hope this helps New Zealand native birds to survive. However I do feel sorry for the cats. I do have a cat in Munich-Germany. My cat would go depressive without the outdoor option.
0	i do keep my three cats indoors. I know the bird population is safe while keeping the cats safe from dangers as well
2	I DO NOT GIVE A FUCK
4	i dont  think we should put cats inside it would  be crue
2	i dont care about cats in the world
4	i dont careabout  our wildlife. sydney sucks
0	I don't enjoy finding cat poo on the lawn or in the garden and sandpit when I don't own a cat. I also hate that they kill birds.
0	i dont have anything to say because i love cats hahahahahaha
2	I dont have cats sowould be willing to go along with any legislaton. W ould have thought cats needed to go outside to hunt but some city cats have lost that urge.
0	I dont know if this could work.
0	i dont like cats and i am  allergic
0	I dont like cats killing birds
0	i dont like cats. they are jerks
2	I dont mind cats wondering around where I used to live. I dont consider it a problem. Give cats their freedom if they want and leave them be.
2	I don't own a cat, and care more about the environment.
0	i dont really like cats and they are dangeours for birds
0	i dont really rate cats but ido like biodiverdity
3	I don't think cat owners understand thir responsibility and the actions to go there are rather immense.
3	i dont think its fair to restrict an animal
3	I dont think that law aound making cats indoor only is realistic.
2	I dont want to own a cat
0	i feel excited  because it  will help the bird
1	I feel like even though there will be resistance, there is a groundswell of people out there who know we need to do something to help our birds.
0	I feel this is achievable for the preservation of all life.
3	i feel worried because jjust am
0	i hate cats and  i don want to see thm
2	i hate cats they poopin your bootiful Garden
1	I hate it when my cat kills a bird. I'm hopeful that we can train our cats to stay inside.
1	I hate the impact cats have on the environment and natural species
0	i have 4    cāts whīch ī sāw bēīng bōrn īn īstānbūl....āftēr āll thēīr  pāpērwōrk ..whīch tākēs 3 months   ī drōvē thēm home to scotland......mine are housecats.....safe and sound
0	i have a  family nearby who all ways let there petsout but one day oneof them got hit by a carand died.
1	i have a cat and i  let him in side
3	I have a cat and she lives outside. She does kill birds and that worries me. But she also kills mice and rats which is important for the pest control around our home.
0	i have a couple pet birds and i love them so much and i care about birds and i dont need them to go extinct so i think cat shoud be indoor pets only
0	I have an aviary and im sick of my neighbours catsterrorising my poor birds
2	i have two cats and yes theykill birds but cats shoud not be lock up
1	i hink cats are predators that eed to stay indors
1	i hop that the cats STOp
1	I hope  it all works out with out harm.
1	I hope people will realise how damaging they are to the enviroment and adapt. It's not hard!
1	i hope that we can keep our cats inside
1	i hope they dont eat baby birds
0	i hope we can eliminate cats entirely
1	i hopethat threatened birds will recover
1	I LIKE CATS .but in this context i hope it will be better. to conservate ecosystem.
1	I LIKE CATS BUT THEY KILL BIRDS AND POO IN MY BACKYARD
2	i like them insde and outsde
0	i live in america where indoor cats are the norm. keeping your cat indoors can extend their lives by years and help protect native fauna!
1	I live in the Coromandel and wouldn't consider getting a cat here because of the amazing wildlife on my doorstep here. Cats are great and I grew up with pet cats but I think that indoors is the way to go if we want the bird life to thrive!
1	I love being visited by my neighbours cats but cats are one of the only 'pest' species we actually have control over. We should take this responsibility seriously and do more to look after native wildlife.
0	I love cats but their effect on wildlife is devastating. Making cats indoor only allows usto enjoy all animals -amazing feline pets and amazing wildlife.
1	i love cats but they dont belong here
0	i love cats however theyareone of the biggest threats to our birds.
0	I love cats. They are exceptional hunters. Responsible owners should keep them in at night for their own safety as well as native animals
4	i love my cat ! would YOU like to be cooped up in a cage??!!?!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3	i love my cat and want her to have a life outside but i love native birds and want them to flourish. maybe if there was a law  for cats to be inside the descision would be made for me. my cat also kills a lot of  native skinks
3	i love my cats and keep them inside from dusk to dawn
0	i love pets i hate when there outside i love huggingtem inoors..#  not sponcered
3	i love the birds but cats cant live a half life indoors. but i cant bear the incredible birds dieing. i just dont know.
2	i own a cat but would keep her inside to preserve birdlife
1	I really think birds are the best!!!!
0	i theyre distructive carnivores simple as that.
3	i thibk there should be an immediate ban on cats entering the country ....   and all similar such predators.  the cats that live here already should have a safe space to end their days.  all female cats  should be sterilised.
4	i thik cats shoukd goutside whenever theyat want
1	I THINK ALL CATS ARE PREDATORY. THEY WANT TO KILL US TOO.
1	I think all cats should be loved and cared for because they are beautiful animals!!
0	I think all cats sould be banned. #dogsrule
4	i think because ct eat wild ife birds. but then cat should be streeted like people
0	i think because it is safer for the cats and they can be a lot more healthy and have not as much stress about finding their way back home if they have been let out
1	i think birds have the right to live.
2	i think cats are mean so i would not care if i did not see them anymore
3	I think cats are meant to live outdoor. I mean you would not put birds into a cage. They are made to fly. CHANGE MY MIND
0	I think cats are safest inside. It is best for their own health ando ther animals safey
2	i think cats are so great. My name is M####. I am 22 and sometimes as a furry i dress up as one
3	i think cats belong oudside and only if they want they can come inside.
4	i think cats have the same right to be outside as every other animal
0	i think cats kill millions of birds and amphibians
0	i think cats kill too many native birds
3	I think cats should be allowed freedom
4	i think cats should be aloud to go were they what
3	i think cats should be indoor at night only and maybe you need a cat permit also compolsory neutering unless you are a breeder. most cats would be miserable if indoors always and most nz houses not suitable for keeping cat inside only.
1	i think cats should be kept in at nights
4	i think cats should enjoy the outside because i think they only have onlife
1	i think cats should not be trapped inside
1	I THINK CATS SHOULD REMAIN INSIDE IF NOT LOOKED AFTERBY THEIR OWNERS
0	i think cats should stay indoors as we can reduce population and cats health
3	i think cats were born to explore the outside world. beingstrictly inside may lead to depression and anxiety for the pet therefore leading to  anunhealthy animal. vet fees etc.
2	i think catscan do what ever they want
0	I think catsshould be well taken care of and the responsbility of their owner. The best way to do this is indoor.
0	i think cull all ferals ( introduced)
3	i think i will be a snge mun
3	i think i would be complicated but it s a good idea
4	i think if we want to make cats indoor cause they kill birds we have to make humans indoor too cause we eat animals and kill them too
0	i think is a good idea
2	i think it depend on your cat and what it prefers and if it knows the area it  lives in and is not vicious
0	i think it is a good idea.
4	i think it is like keeping a whale in an aquarium.  we should instead encourage cat owners to put bells on the cats so they can ntsneak up on birds
3	i think it is worrisome that we feel we should interfere with the natural world based on our ideological framework.
1	i think it may help some endangered species of bird to recover
1	i think it well help the balance of nature
0	i think it would be amazing
0	i think it would be better to get rid of all cats. too much risk
3	i think its an excellent idea
3	i think its better to have cat and dog free housing areas in some places near special wild or conservationareas but not all. its not fair to not let cats out during the day but they should be kept in at night.
1	i think its definitely something  that needs to happen but im only hopeful because it wont happen soon enough
1	i think its good for birds to survive but it is sad that cats cant get exercise in there own way and time and place so ima bit worried
4	i think its important that I kaele
1	I think its mportant to show the sheer impact they have.
4	i think melodie shouldnt have stood on her kitten
1	i think more breadingcontrol measuresshould be introduced
4	I think my car deserves to go outside
0	i think our birds insects and reptiles are too precious a toanga to loose any more to extinction.  We need to be brave couragious warriors each one doing the mahi to save our native species
1	I think our birds makegreat outdoor companions and we need toprotect them
0	i think people should be responsible for their pets acts.  and if they are outdoors is very hard to take proper care. native fauna is more important in this matter.
1	i think pets owners should pick up after their pets.  cat  owners typically dont
1	i think saving endemic nature and animals is paramount
4	i think shawn mendes should be allowed in every country
4	i think that  its not good to loose most of our birds
3	i think that a cat is supposed tobea outdoor animal thats what theirused for to be a outdoor pet that hunts. it would be sad if they were idoor
1	i think that although this would benefit ourecosystem  immensely.. hwēvēr ī thīnk thāt ī īswrōng tō kēēp cāts ībdōōrs
2	i think that cats a always hunter
0	I think that cats are bringing down the native birds population and that this shouldbe put into affect immediately.
0	i think that cats are not domestic animals and should not exposeany risks to nativ animals.
0	I think that cats aren't alays the best for ou environment
1	i think that cats like spaggeti
3	I THINK THAT CATS NEED EXERSIZE OUTSIDE
4	i think that cats need nature. ya know
1	i think that cats normally should be able to go outside. But in NZ they should stayathome or somehow in the garden because they kill so many native animals.
1	i think that cats should be able to go outside to see the world
3	i think that cats should nt be kept inside but i alsothink thatprotcting  the native brds is important
1	i think that cats should stop killing animalsthat are not anoying you but meg and maisie are fine.
1	I think that it is cool and that one day the future generation can learn from this.
1	i think that it is good idea but i dont think that its going to be successful
3	I think that it would help if we could keep them inside but then they might to kill  more because they're stuck inside.
1	I think that it's worth trying. If it turns out that cats are a big problem and keeping them inside helps our birds then yes I think it might be a good idea. If not then they canbe free. But we won't know until we've tried.
0	i think that they are useful to kill the rats. but not the birds.....
1	I Think that you should be able to take them out on a leash during the day; but keep them in during the night when the cats usually hunt
4	i think thatit is not fair as they need space too
3	i think thatit is scary that we have tomake cats inside animals because their natural habitat is outside so it is horrible that we have to take that away from them but it is to protect out native wildlife so i think we have to do some thing
3	i think the birds need a space for live they life proprely and in peace
3	i think the cat would go mad
1	i think there should be a law to sterilize cats
0	i think they are dangerous pets justlike rats. Our society tolerated them in NZ so far only because cats are part of our European culture (where most of cst lovers from) but in reality they dont fit this ecosystem.
2	i think they carry diseases so yeah thats why pooop
0	i think they should remain indoor domestic pets for their own protection as well as the enviorment protection.
0	I think this because cats are amazing creatures
1	I think this idea is on the right track but not quite right. There should also be an option to have an outdoor "run" for cats. Something that allows them the freedom to go outside and sit in the sun but that separates them from birds. A neighbour of mine has one for her cat and it works really well.
1	i think this is a good idea as so much native wildlife is threatened. but what kind of a life is it for an animal trapped indoors. would conservation ever suggest to keep the birds kept inside?
0	I think this is a great idea because cats should leave birds alone
3	I think this s a good and bad ideas yes we do need to protect our nature and wild life but cats need a life and freedom too.
0	i think this will save native wildlife
2	i think very strongly on this matter
3	I think we mustnot keep cats inside because  they deserve to be kept inside they are originally wild animals until humans captivated them.
1	i think we need to protect native animals
1	i think we need to protect our birdlife. this may be a sacrifice we need to consider.
1	i think we need to protect the native birds before our love for domestic pets
2	i wanna see the buubles move
1	i want my grandchildren  to see this world as i have
1	i want native birdlife back in cities in NZ
4	i want the human species to be extinct. that will solve all the problems.
1	i want to fist fight very cat until i becme the most powerfu thing on land
1	i want to save the native birds
3	i wont birds to be alive because when you know it they will be exitnt and then we wont have any mbirds and the people that love birds and take care of then the we be very sad because cats are kill thenarekkklkillingkillbirdsq
0	I would like our native wildlife to be there in 5 years thankyouverymuch
0	i would love for my cat to be indoors ll the time!!
1	I would not like to see them harmed. I realise they are taking over in many cases, and they are a risk to our Birdlife. I would want the best for Cats...How do we contain an animal that is born to travel, investigate, find new families and have adventures. Yet I see the risk they may present
3	I WOULD PREFER NOT HAVING ONE AT ALL THAN KEEPING IT INSIDE. BUT I AM PRETTY CONCERNED ABOUT HELPING NATIVE ANIMALS ! SO NO CAT FOR ME :)
1	iam allergic to cats. they give me itchy eyse so them beinng indoors would be nice
1	ibeiev that cats can dstroy too many native animals and should be restricted during the night
3	id feel bad for cats as they are natural hunters and part of the world evolving isadly includes a little bit of species death. sup humans
0	I'd love to have more native birds around my house.
2	idk if we should do that
0	if cats are ebdabgering wildlife then these pets should not be allowed to hunt freely.
4	if cats are going to kill birds thats life. we dont hear anything about killing cows or lambs do we. although keeping cats iside from dangerous driving would be saving both cats and birds. therefore why dont we humans just stay inside. (:
1	If cats are kept indoors it means they become less of a serious preditor to native and endemic NZ species.
3	if cats are kept indoors they will lose their natural instincts
1	if cats are responsible for decimating our native bird populations they should be indoor pets.
0	if every cat owner was a responsible eco citizen then cats would be confined indoors of an evening  and would have a diminished impact on wildlife numbers.
4	if i back it up... is it fat enough?
0	if individuals wish to have pets then they should be responsible fortheir actions. Cats in particular are able to kill various native species
1	if its fair on both cats and birds then we should tryit
1	if it's harming bird we should contain them as pets only
0	If not indigenous a speces has no place in the wild
2	if runs on the road not ny faukt if it gets bowled over
1	if the cat cant be restricted to an outside area like a yard it will kill endandered birds. endandered birds are more important than a persons pet because they dont have a choice. we do
1	if theyare  family pet. then whydo they need to leave the house?
3	if theyre indoor only then my neighbors cat wont come to visit. sad face
1	if this becomes reality it will help the native fauna.
1	if we do not do this we harm this land. the alternative is to get rid of cats here
0	if you want acat keep inside
4	ike cats . they are nic to touch
0	ilkethe birdies they are pretty and better than cats
4	ilove my cat and she derserves to have time to sleep in my garden. thanks for coming to my ted talk
0	im allergic and cats are not frendly animals.
0	i'm excited of the alice and wonderland exhivition
3	I'm feeling a bit conflicted with this issue. However I do hope something is to be done sooner for the sake of our native birds. and possible extinction.
4	im for freedom and also human are more dangerous to the evironment than animal
2	im not a massive fan of cats.they do what they want when they want.....annoying little buggers
3	im sad for the that is dying
1	imaginehaving kiwi in thebackyard. way betterthan a cat
1	important to protect native spieces vs white men traditions
1	In a country like NZ it could be very benificial.
0	in canada all cats are house pets and it spreads lessdisease
3	in the oceon fish and sea creatures are diying because of taking too much fish or plastic pls helpthe sea
0	invasive and destroyer of native species
4	irs soeone playnggo with nature. animals dontwanna be caged mate. would u
3	is it cruel to keep cats inside when their natural state is to be outside?
1	is need to protect the native species
2	is ok cats are defending ther salfe
1	Is possibe to keep cats with us like pets into our home and at the same time take care native environment.  Just need a lot responsability about our pets
0	is the right thing to do isnt it
1	it can be safe from other dangerous animals
3	It can create a lot of stress for the animal and the owner. It will also be very difficult to maintain. Deal to the feral cat population and imported vermin – like rats, stoats, and possums – first.
0	it could encourage more native species to come to our towns and cities so everyone can enjoy their presence. plus it was their place first lets give it bcak to the birds
3	it could work but there are some cats that can't be keeped inside because they don't get along with other pets or they hate being inside
2	it does not really appear to affect anything whe you have a animal it just matters how they re breed if they are breed in  bad matter than things could be bad so its just your decision
1	It has been proven how many wild native birds they  kill. We really neeed to prioritize the eradication of wild cats first. People do not realize how many there are in the wild and the destruction they cause.
2	It has not really affected me but I do think that cats should stop killing native life/birdsbut I think that we can think of other ideas/ways to stop cats from killing native life then just making them inside pets only.
0	it is a good idea for the preservation of the birds in nz
1	it is a good idea to save more birds
1	it is a responsible thing to do
0	it is about time action was taken
4	it is against the nature of cats
4	it is agaist their nature and is cruel to supress that
4	it is bad and im angry gurrrr i love birds and they r all dead ughhh im angry ahhhh my wife left me
3	it is bad becausethen theyare not wild
1	it is best that we do  this for the environment; however_ i believe that people will find it difficult because cats enjoy their time outdoors and people too get enjoyent from this.
1	it is better for the birds
3	it is better to bell cats to register them and desex them rather than constrain them which goes against their nature
3	It is cruel to force cats to live only indoors
1	it is good idea cause they eat fish and birds.  they can exercise in the house.
1	it is good to see the public making an effort to conserve native wildlife. Protect native birds!!!
3	it is hard to decide because cats follow their natural food chain.
0	It is important to preserve our wildlife. domesticated animals should be controlled.
0	it is important to protect native animals
1	it is important toprotect the natural world
4	it is in their nature to hunt. most cats are becoming lazy now.  the biggest worry is stray dogs killing kiwi
3	IT IS not pet cats that are the main problem. IT is the wild cats that we can nōt cōntrōl thāt ārē ā major issue.
3	it is not the fault ofw the cats. make owners more responsible.
3	it is not their natural habbatat
1	it is not too late to safe some species from extinction
3	It is note a animal to be lock in a place. But its a bg problem for birds...
1	It is possible to keep cats indoors at all times but does it benefit the cat's wellbeing
3	it is really bad that tey kill o many birds and i feel bad and sorry about that but atthe same tme i thin it wold not be ho the naturallive f a cat is. a cat lives otdoor natually and he is a hunter. w should find an othr solution.
3	it is sad for ntive birds
0	it is simply the right thing to do and does the cat no harm
0	it is the only way to save our wildlife
3	it is unnatural for cats to always be indoors
2	it is what it is k0
1	it is what need to happen
1	it isa good start to protecting wild species thatare vulnerable
3	it isnt humane to keepcats indoors.
1	it makes sence for nz ecosystemthat people shuld try to keep it healthy by keeping nne native animals and pets controlled and inside
0	it makes sensein order to keep our native bird population growing
1	it may be a less happy life for cats but it will save millions of lives
0	it should be now and mantatory to keep cats inside
1	it will be good because of native birds
3	It will be very challenging to manage and is forcing something that isn't natural. Instead we shoul ensure they wear bells so birds are given warning of their approach.
1	it will help protect our native wildlife. alternatively we can make it a legal requirement to put belled collars on all cats
1	it will protect native and endangered species
1	it will save our nativebirds and faunds
1	it willbe nice and good so we can keepnative things
0	it willl save and protect many species
3	it would affect the natural trail
0	it would be a great idea because then native birds won't get eaten
0	it would be good if we could keep cats inside because i think that it could help the bird population stay safe from predators
1	it would be great if cat owners behaved responsibly and kept their cats inside
0	it would give our native birds a fighting chance
1	it would help native birds and other wildlife.
1	its a cats natural instinct to hunt. Iftheyhave a bell and collar then the birds can escape.
0	its a good idea so the native birds are protected
0	its a great idea like dogs they should be supervised in our native forests
0	its a great idea to protect brds
1	its a great ideati save the wild birds but cats need to be free and live peacfullythats why you must put a bell on it.
1	Its a lot easier to adjust human behaviour than replace native bird species
1	It's a possible solution to address owned cats (even if only voluntary it would reduce cats outside). But we have a significant stray problem as well.
1	It's a shame for the cats but our native species need protecting.
1	It's absolutely a good idea, and I'd like to see it. But I'd say I'm only hopeful 'cos cat lovers are such a force, to put it politely. It would be an uphill and battle against a determined, and to honest, emotional coterie - the mad cat people!
4	Its against a cat's nature to live indoors.
3	its bad so we need to keep them as pets
0	its better for our endangeredanimals that are prey to cats
0	its better for our wildlife and when done well it safer for cats
0	It's better for the cats and native species for cats to stay indoors.
1	its better fr both the cats and nativebirds
0	It's crucial that we preserve the animals here because they're nowhere else!
4	its cuel o keep cats inside. i have two cats grrr
3	its good for the birds but the cat needs exercise
1	Its good for the birds but the cats might not get enough of their own excersie. you can put a special bird collar on your cat so the birds can see them and fly away
3	its hard forcats to be inside all the time
0	It's healthier for all. Save the birds.Give your cat a longer live. Be responsible for your pet!
0	its important to protect our native species
1	its important we do what we can
3	It's impossible to stop distracted owners accidentally letting pets out occasionally. Human nature means accidents will happen.
4	its in their nature to be outside
2	its kind of cruel to keep them inside 24/7 and there are other wys to reducehow much they hutlike keeping them inside durring dusk and dawn
0	its kind of gross seeing what the cat drags in
0	it's mch better for them. ans hey are veryhappy like that if you take care of them
4	its mean to cats its their nature
1	its neccesaryto protect the native species
3	its not a natural state to be kept indoors. There must be better ways to reduce the bird kills...
3	its not fair on the cats
0	its not fair whn ur cats neighbours poo in ur garden. so yes cat should be indoor only pet
3	its not humane to imprison cats
3	its not n there nature to nothunt. THEY will get stressed inside and that may lead to health problems. they need to excercise and be active tohavea healthy mindset. cats could become depressed andobease
4	its not our place to restrict an animal's basic culture.
3	its not suitable for the cats needs. either dont hold a cat or make it wear a bell
3	it's not sustainable. cats are very hardto keep confined
4	its not the cats its us
0	its not ther fault they were born. but theyhave no placehere
4	its notfair on cats my cat hasonlyever come home with  rats and you can siply give them a bell on there coller.
3	its sad that generations of domesticated cats are a threat to native wildlife leading to such drastic measures
3	its the circle of life. not healthy for cats to be soley indoors.
1	its unlikely we can completely get rid of cats solets make it workable
4	its unnatural for cats to be kept indoors and its CRUEL!!!!!!1!1!1!
3	its unnatural to confine cats  theyve been fo mny years and are part of nz culture now
0	its worth a try  they can lazexaround inside fed play hunt toys  there are too many cats killing too many nz birds
1	j espere pouvoir manger une fondue
1	j espere que ce ira mieux
4	je pense quun animal doit pouvoir aller dehors comme il le soihaite en plus certain chatsobt des animauxsauvage
0	je trouve que c'est bien parce que il y aura plus d'oiseaux
1	jhjhjhjhjhh hjhjhjh hjhjhj hjhjhjh hjhjhj hhjhjh hjhjhjh hh jhjhjhjhjhh hjhjhjh hjhjhj hjhjhjh hjhjhj hhjhjh hjhjhjh hhjhjhjhjhjhjhh hjhjhjh hjhjhj hjhjhjh hjhjhj hhjhjh hjhjhjh hhjhjhjhjhjhjhh hjhjhjh hjhjhj hjhjhjh hjhjhj hhjhjh hjhjhjh hhjhjhjhjhjhjhh hjhjhjh hjhjhj hjhjhjh hj
2	just let cats be bro u gay
3	just more red tape and noncence
4	Just put bells on them if you live a bird populated area.
0	keep them from digging out all my vegi plants
3	Keeping all cats indoors seems unfair to some who may wish to explore farther afield. I feel more hopeful that putting collars with bells on indoor/outdoor cats could prevent native bird suffering. I think this is about training owners to be responsible.
1	keeping cats and native wildife safe is a good idea
3	keeping cats as indoor animal is not their natural way of living. they ned to have the opportunity to climbing and running as well as hunting.
3	Keeping cats as indoor pets is an interesting proposal to protect our native wildlife, but I think that as cats are natural roaming animals, they will not have as good a quality of life. It is also hard to confine a cat to a persons backyard, and many people do not have backyards, as they may live in a rural setting with lots of land space.
3	Keeping cats indoors against their will is very stressful for them as they naturally roam large territories.
1	keeping cats mostly indoors will be good for our native animals.
1	keeping native species safe and keeping house pets is a win-win solution
1	Keeping our nativle wildlife safe is important. At the same time we need to mak sure we're dong right by animals already in our families
1	keeping outdoor cats is a risk to nature and to the cat. They were not born as wild animals.
0	keeping them in keeps them safe from cars and from each other
1	Keeping them indoors at night would be already a great achievement. Most people don't care though and let them wonder at night.
0	Keeping them indoors will help protect native wildlife
4	Keepng cats inside is not appropriate for their species as they need to excersize and keep entertained (e.g. by seeing and smelling things in nature)
0	kei haere au me akau hoa no kapti
0	kitties should stay inside to protect them from dogs and cars and to protect native species!
1	kiwi bird is stupid and ugly
3	Kiwis do not likechange and most are actually very poor owners.
0	kjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkkkkkkjkjkjkjkjkjkjkjk k k k k k k k k k k k j j j j j j j j j h h h  h   h h h h h h h h h h h b b b b g g g gfgfgfgtyrgdgssvcvcggsgagavryththffvugn   hvhhvhv v v v v v v v v?????????????????????????&&&&&&&&&)&)&)&)&)&)&)&)& & & &+& &+& && &+&;&+&753;35&@&523&_657+&+-&!!;!&+&+5-57563&7575  &&5!--&-&65-&67-(-858+$ $&$54&_6_& &565 #65-&65-36-$6465 &-&+5+67636342415465  5665757676869868!!!!!!!!++6767585747384642541414364-&$#-$''""""""#########((787)79595746534575--&65-71622344656&-5657&+67+-86(+87)795+74-55&2413@@#4#_3434565667787889899
2	kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk hjhjhihjygdbdfgnvjjturwbas hhgbjsksn vbgitshhj kyuyhh jhfhfhcbcheywi giyugjfpjjcutj kgghhyuwqjdfjh kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkhjhyujijhujy
1	kos im hopeful hopeful for today take this music and use it.......and be hooopefuullllll
4	lame cats need to murder to function
0	less animals including pets will die
1	less bird killing cats would be good
0	less cats more native birds. put responsibility on owners of cats
0	less danger for bird and lizzards
4	let em go. birds shouldfly. keep thedugs in. woof woof woof woof.
0	letting cats roam freely puts not only them at risk but also places a huge stress on our endangered wildlife!
4	like Australia did there is too much species imported that are invasive. Humans  and there will of controling natureand regulate species are the real threat.
4	like cats so they should be wild
3	like mostanimals i think cats need to go outdoors but weneed a wayto stop themkillig birds.bells and other strategies and limit ownership to one per house. my cat is also a rat catcher and would stopping them going outside affect rat numbers
2	lke a lt of fish by human. a lot of sharks byhuman .who worry about?
1	looking  after our environment and native species has to be our main priority. keeping cats indoors is beneficial to both sides of the debate
3	lots of people will not understand the importance of this and it could divide communities
0	maby pass legisation allowibg only certificate holders to own cats. similar to victorian england. it would also cut back on animal abuse
1	Make your kitty an outdoor run ...
1	many cats are crashed in the roads
1	marty j is an indoor cat
0	maybe i wont see them anymore.
1	maybe it needs to be compulsory for cats to wear a bell collar. best of both?
1	maybe it will work but its hard to make a decision. everyone love animals and the human is more together with cats thanthe others. humans are egoistic
1	meesa wantsa animals likesa birdsas tosa livesa
3	might as well have no cats as pet at all
0	mindful control benefits the animal world
4	mira  la cncha d tu madre el gato es una pija
0	more people should have ragdoll cats that are an indoor breed
3	Most cats are not by their nature "indoor cats". The idea of forcing them to stay inside is concerning from an animal welfare perspective. If it was established that this would not cause them harm or be against their nature, then my current position could change. It also isn't clear what the scale of this problem is - 1mil is a large number, but it could be a small percentage of bird deaths or of all birds, equally it could be very high. Are there other options which could be effective eg desexing schemes?Would be interested in any health and waste issues associated with kitty litter.
3	mr m####### is cute but he kills birds. he loves the outdoors so i feel sad that he does it. i dobt think we could keep him inside because he is an escape artist. to my knowledge he hasnt killed any native birds :/
0	my best friendis dateing a hot girl
4	my cat is king of outside
4	my cat is outdoor cat. pls stop conplaining! it makes me angry!
3	my cat is very happy outside
4	my cat loves eating mice and birds.  my cat is awesome.  cats need outdoor recreation
3	my cat will peein the house on the couch
3	My cat would hate it. just use bells and collars that will scare away any birds. and it is goodthat cats can go outdoors to cats pests like rats and mice
3	my cat would hate that. just use bells and collars
3	My cat's a bloodthirsty hunter. Sticking a bell on her makes no difference. But she LOVES being outside! I'd hate to trap her indoors. And litter trays... ugh. Then again, maybe we just have to get used to the idea.
3	my cats are assholes i dont want to live ith them
1	my cats are happy indoor only
3	my cats do a great job at keeping the mice and rat numbers down. they dont kill birds and I would know if they did because they present me with everything they catch.
3	my cats eat rats. not birds.
2	my cats kil lrats at night
3	my cats love to roam outside and only bring in a bird once every 3 years. They need exercise and kill pests.
3	my cats may not be happy they love to go outsude
3	my cats would hatethat because trapping them inside my small house will not be nice for them
3	my house isnt bigenough for him to be inside
4	my kittyvloves to visithisfiends in herbs yard
0	my petsmy resposibilityto ensure theydont shit in my neighbours property
2	mycat is old and never hunted needed a human
3	mycatlikes going outside and onlycatchespests e.g rodents
1	na te mea ka mate kararehe te ngeru.
1	native animals have more sigbificabc thab ctas
0	Native anmals are more important than kittycomfort
0	native birds almost extinctand cats are responsible for their demise
1	native birds are a lovely creature and they do not deserve to become extinct by cats because cats our cute and birds are cute
0	native birds are more important than uncontrolled cat freedom
1	native birds must come first. but catsare meant to be outside. i think bellsor whistles would be helpful but it would be unfair to cats to frce them to be indoors
1	native birds need to be protected better
0	native flora and fauna needs to be put first
0	native species are more important than cats
0	native species are more important than your cat
1	Native species are moreimportant and I agree with prioratizing them.
1	native species should be enabled to thrive. keeping cats inside will help and also prevent cat fights
1	native wildife should be respected and cherished for as long as possible. this doesnt hurt the cats but helps the world
1	NATIVE WILDLIFE NEEDS TO BE PROTECTED FROM CATS
0	Natives need to be protected as they dont exist anywhere else. We need to be part of our ecosystems.
0	natives were here first .  also cats get their wayon everything; time they heard te word no'
3	natural instinct to hunt  out doors
1	need to protect what is ours and that is our new zealand wildlife.
1	new zealand wildlife is beng compromised. let the birds fly my dude. cats suck anyway.
3	no animal is designed to be totally cative
3	no animal should be confined to an indoor space
4	no animal should be held captive for the  pleasure of humans
4	No animals should ever have their freedom stripped from them because of something they do naturally. Humans kill all kinds of things, why dont we stay locked up inside?
4	no cats at ll or dogs or  preditors
4	no environmental enrichment for indoor cats
0	no natural predators and even the well fed cats hunt and kill native birds
0	no need for cats. it is a privlege to live in an area with with high levels of endism. sacrifice should be no pet cats.
0	non natural animals need to be eliminated
0	Not everyone likes cat especially they poo wee and killed birds and leave at your garden or front yard..! As this survey says they kill native birds which are precious to NZ so I personally think they should be kept inside!
3	not keen on rules being put on owning a cat. thats just stupid. By the way. IMA GENIUS
1	not possible to keep all cats inside
1	ntther place outdor if it is to detroy wild life hope peoplecan understand that
1	nz tries their best to let their biodiversity recover
4	NZs wildlife needs a safer environment
3	on the one hand i want to help restore the original species and save them from extinction but on the other hand cats are free animals too. mine couldnt survive without some outdoor action... how about cats only in cities and not in natural or rural areas? natural reserves?
3	Only because cats could have urges to explore. As long as this could be dealt with in the best intrests of both parties.
1	only if they have access to an outdor area like the catio terry andsue built for their babies
1	or is it evolutionary. maybe we could become the land of cats! contraversial.
4	other controls need to be identified before we simply cage them inside. if you are wrried about it help keep population numbers under control. dont punish the animals for human irresponsibility
0	Our birds, bats and ghekos would benefit from this.
1	our cats already live only indoors
0	our cats are indoor only and do well plus they are safer
3	our cats like to go outside
0	our native birds need protection from ALL predators
3	our native birds will get endangared because of the cat population of killingnative birds
1	our native species need protecting and being inside is safer for cats.
1	our two cats in Canada are indoor only.  We would rather have the birds and squirrels otside than the cats.
3	OUTDOOR AREA WITHA GATE. CATS ARE ANIMALS TOO AND DESERVE TO BE OUTSIDE AS THEY WISH
1	outdoor cats are a major threat to native birds
1	Over 1 million birds are killed each year due to wild cats. By eligically making cats only indoor animals tis will minimise the critical risk of the extinction of birds in NZ.
1	Over a long time frame make cats indoor only.
0	owners can be more responsible with cats and dogs  need to contol their eating and hunting  keep pets under leash or indoors
1	owners need to take resonsibility for their fanmily which should include their family pets    ...wewill see...
4	parce que il sont sauvage normalement
3	penguins and other birds will go extinct
1	people haveto start to care more about the environment then about thir personal feeling towards their cats.
4	PEOPLE KILL MORE. MAKE THEM INDOOR TOO!
1	People love their cats and they are part of the human ecosystem - keeping them in at night is a great way to reduce the death of birds from cat predation. I'd hope that a balance can be found.
1	people should beresponsible for their pets
4	peoplewh are anti cat are commnist
1	Personally not keen on keeping a cat indoors (not great for the cat - better not to own one), but if it's that or the birds, I vote for the birds. Are bells just a waste of time then? I'm hopeful that the conversation is happening.
0	pet owners cant be responcible for their pets if they alow them to roam free.
1	pets are great but owners should take responsibility for them. cant do that if theyre roaming around unsupervised
1	pets of sorts kinds need licence. feral cats are bsd news. with a licencce comes control over breeding which leads to controls on the release of feral cats inti the environment
1	plenty of safer technologies yetto become mainstream
3	poor kittens jst want to play
1	Possible  goal... but  difficult to achieve...
2	possums rats and so on kill the birds anyway. we should focus gettingrid of thesepredators first who kill like 25 times more native birds every year. indoor cats only is a good way but doesnt solve thprobllem at al. we should put more effot in getting rid of possums rats and mice
0	predatory not native destructive kills precious wildlife
3	pretty cool pretty cool pretty cool pretty cool also what abt the jellicles??? mr mistofelees is an outdoor creature xoxo
1	protect our native bush and birds
0	protect the wildlife. pets kill for fun not only for food
0	protect wildlife and keep them safe
0	Protect your beautiful Aotearoa. Cats are great but not if they threaten kiwis
0	protection of native wildlife and birdlife is extremely important
1	protects our birds and our cats
1	protects the natural and native environment as its precious
4	put a bell and desex all
1	Responsible pet owners can make a large difference. We can make this change for our future.
0	safer for them safer for wildlife
0	save the birds and small mammels
1	save the birds get a dog
1	save the birds plus cats are lazy and cuddley for inside
1	SAVER FOR THE CATS PLUS THE WILDLIFE
1	saves them from hunting native creatures
0	SCATS HAVE A BAD INFLUENCEIN THE WILDLIFEOF NEW ZEALAND. SOME SPECIES DO ONLY LIVE HERE AND SHOULD DEFINITELY SAFED. CATS CAN LIVE EVERYWHERE. BUT NOT ANIMALS LIKE KIWIS AND OTHER ANIMALS....
0	Seems like a no-brainer. Bonus: They’re always there for pats.
3	Sheer fact of pets mental health & quality of life. Humans are more destructive. How about we lock all humans inside only. (as youmay tell i am an avid animal lover haha)
0	so   they eve native animals alne
1	so  the birds can be safe
0	so cool to be with your friends
0	so that they dont kill the wildlife.
2	so they can get fresh air
1	so they dont attack children on the streets
0	so they dont kill all our anmils
0	so they dont kill are nattive birds
0	so they stop killing birds etc
1	so we have a sense of connection to our land.
1	so we have more native animals in the future
3	some cats are happiest when roaming outdoors
3	some cats dont like being outdoors
1	some cats may cause trouble to some places but i think some cats still could be outside roaming around
1	sothecats cant eat all the native animals and if they do go outsie for play time I recon put a bell on there collar.
4	stop reproduce them. cats are not indoor animals they will be sad so dont adopt them
1	stop the killing of native birds
0	Stops them from hunting other animals
1	studies have shown that cats that have been raised indoors from birth are happier than outdoor cats due to not having to defend their territory so they have lower stress levels
0	suck dick u ugly motherfucker go kys rnplease gly dog mut
3	super difficult to keep cats indoor at all times...
3	supressing animal instinct usually doesnt go well.  but i know the change is ment for the better
2	sure make dogs indoor theyre class
1	swhere i come from they need to be outdoors to catch the rats and mice and our birds can fly. here it is a different environment and native animals need help to continue in an environment we have spoiled for them. Aliens need to be managed tightly
0	tai smells so bad he need a shower
1	test - I think in certain strategic areas this could be a viable option.
0	tey are murders and need to be lockedaway like the monsters they are
2	that  cat should be abelto go outside
3	that all birds might go extinct
1	that cat are fragile  and small then they could stop killing birds and there owners could spend moretime with them
3	that cats are also creatures that biologically desire to strowl outside.it seems like human ignorance to me if they cannot live outside but still are wanted   as  pets
4	that cats are family of tigers and tigers are free so why cant cats be free
0	that cats are the spawn of the devil
1	that cats can be harmfull for our enviriometer becaus they are predators that are harming our beatufull nature in nz
1	that cats kill off native animals and wildlife. they should be inside only. they are dummmmbbbbbbb
3	That cats need to be outdoors so even if they kill wildlife they need to be outdoors for at least a small amount of time a day
4	that cats should be able to rome free and live a life inside and out
1	that cats should not be allowed to roam around outside as they will start to become less atatched to you and only return for food
1	that cats should stay indoors uless highly trined not tokill i hope that the catscan explore like normal animals
1	that cats should stop killing birds but then i think that the owners of cats ( i am not  a owner but meg and  maisie are) would like to take there cats  outside. like some cats are good!
3	that if cats are constantly killing birds  the nativebirds can be in a lot of danger.oe way to  tryad avoid this problem is that we couldtry and eep the cats indoors or before we let them out we could  make sue that they have pleanty to eat sothat  they wont be killing the birds
4	that it isnt fair to the cat.  there are other methods to protect birds including makibg the backyard fencing so the cats cant climb them.  there are other ways andthoseshould be look at before such an extreeme action which can infinge on the helth of cats.  look for ways that su
2	that peopl need tostop  caribg somuh
3	that people will not undrstand the importance of this abd that we should get rid of cats all together
0	that there are far too many cats and they eat vulnerable birds
3	that they need outside spaces but these could be protected to ensure bird safety
1	that we can train cats to stay inside and it won't make a difference in friendship.
2	that we should let the cats wander a they like and then bring them in at night
1	that would be greatfor the wildlife while nt really harming the cats
0	thats a good idea i'm helping
4	thats not in thir nature. humans should not use them.
0	the animals outside should be protected
1	the beginning of more responsible pet ownership.
3	the cat is a big predator
1	the cats have a mind of their own bt need to stop eating
0	the cats must go to save the birds. Sterilize the cats  .
1	the cats should stay inside like my cat he is afraid to go out side but to pretect the birds !!!!!!
1	The council of my hometown in Melbourne, Australia has a regulation that cats must be kept indoors at night-time. I think this is a good way to approach this issue. Cats are most active and have the most drive to hunt at dusk and at night-time, so by keeping cats indoors when they have their strongest hunting instincts, they are unable to do harm to the native fauna. I think lots of cat owners like to have some freedom of how they care for their pet, so I think this is a good balance between choice as well as taking care of our native bird populations.
0	the environment needs to be protected
1	The impact of cats on groud-living birds is imense.
2	The issue is largely due to wild cats as well as domestic, we should take further action to eradicate the wild cat pest population.
1	the large numbers of cats damage bird populations. they should be treated as dogs  taken to walks on leads
0	the native birds of New Zealand need protecting. So many have already been hunted to extinction. The world will be poorer long term if these precious creatures arenot protected as they should be
1	the native birds ought to be our primary concern - there arent many left. Plus cats suck in any case.
1	the native fauna should be a priority and responsible/accountable pet ownership be the norm
3	the number of cats in new zealand should be tackled before tackling a house cats way of life and its freedom. regulation as opposed to forcing people to keep cats under constant house arrest
0	the number of nz native birds that have become extinct is shocking. heart breaking. never can we hear thier song. never can we observe their nature. i think of all the birds ive been over the moon to hear on bush waks and tramps...i want the coming generations to share in my joy.
0	the piroritisation of native flora and fauna is extremely important. even over house pets
0	the producers of cat food would appreciate the increased sales Also feral cats transmit diseases
1	them a i have grown up with cats and dogs we had 6 cats at one point my cats would always try kill birds baby birds being the most common victim they kill them slowly i have tried to stop them every time they did i gave them a smack but it never worked its just in their nature
1	then much birds can be alive
1	then there couldbe more cat cafes.
3	there are better solutions to the problem than this. logging and dairy threaten our wildlife more anyway.
1	there are chances for it with educatio
1	There are no downsides. Only upsides
3	THERE IS A HUGE PROBLEM. BECAUSE CATS KILL MANY ENDEMIC BIRDS IN NZ
1	there is more awareness these days. i love my cat but need w ildlife to thrive  even more..
0	there is no reason other than laziness for why cat owners donot confine their pests opps pets
1	there re too many and they treaten birds.
3	theres a danger that birds will not survive in the long term
2	theres no way you cb keep cats inside withoutit beibg anial cruelty but i dont own a cat so whatever
4	they  should  not  be  kept  inside  just  because  they  attack  birds!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3	they also kill mice and rats. but they need to be outside. protective fences would aybe help
3	they also like to go out
3	they are a danger to the birdife of nz
4	they are a free raomng animal
1	they are a major predator of our native birds
0	they are better inside and i will give them a treat
0	they are demons ! for real ...
1	they are destructive to the environment and they are safer indoors
1	they are domestic animals.  human responsibiity to care.  trap neuter release programs have been successful in usa.
4	THEY ARE FREE. SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST
0	they are greedy stupid things that kill animals for fun and food even when they are fed by dumb humans that own them. My advice dont get a cat they are murderers
0	they are hard wired to kill
0	they are have a massive effect on nz wildlife
4	They are hunters and gatherers just like us and confining them more in our environment will only cause them to be more reliant on us.
0	they are hunters of our   lovelybird life
0	they are killing far too many birds
0	they are murderous little thibgs and it stops them squabbling with each other
4	they are my family and are acting naturally. humans are the biggest pests to nature not animals
0	they are natural hunters and are a danger to any insect lzard and bird
3	they are not indoor animals and should be allowed to live in the wild as well
4	they are not meant to be indoors animals. then we sould reduce future cat population by steilizing new cats. our dispense permits for cat owners to increase awereness.
0	they are not native and are pests
3	they are not supposed to be indoor pets
4	they are outdoor anmals which should not be hold in houses only.
3	they are outdoor creatures. better restrict numbers than keep them cooped up.
1	they are predators and pests both to wildlife and people who dont want them
0	they are predators for  vulnerable species.
0	they are too damaging to birds
0	they area menace to birds  and defacate everywhere polluting soil and water
4	they arent actually a part of the natural ecosystem
1	they attack birds houses but they need toplay outside sometimes
1	they breed more out of control when left outdors. ALSO they destroy needed animals. Keep them domestic.
2	They can be both. Grew up with an outdoor cat
4	they can do whatever they want
4	they cant b keeped in or safe but there probably is things we can  do to help
1	they cause desieses and cill other smaller animals
3	they could kill lots of birds
0	they destroy wildlife esecially birds just for kicks
1	They distroythe natural ecosystem. Indoor is the only way to go.
0	they do so much damage to wildlife
4	they dont change the bird population as much as people say.
0	they eat local birds just for sport
4	they have hearts for adventure also
4	they have te right to be outdoor
4	they have the same right as every other animal to live in nature and live their instinct
4	they havent chosen to be ourdoestic animal
0	they kil too many wild birds
0	they kill a lot of native birds
0	they kill and serve no purpose
0	they kill billions of wildlife each year. keep them inside at night tosave all the ther creatures.
0	they kill birds ad mess up other peoples space
0	they kill my birds in the garden aad use my vegetable garden as a toilet. Gross SHOULD LIMIT NO OF CATS A PERSON CAN OWN AND THEY SHOULD BE KEPT INSIDE AT NIGHT.
0	They kill native birds; spread disease; and poop in gardens and kids' sandpits. The sooner the better!
0	they kill so many birds people need to keep there cats inside
0	They kill the birds and kiwis. In other countries they can live outside. But not in those like New Zealand
0	they kill the native birds and smaller animals like lizards
0	they kill to much wild life
0	THEY KILL TOO MANY BIRDS AND HAVE NO BOUNDARIES BETWEEN PROPERTIES SO THEY CAN BE DESTRUCTIVE IN NEIGHBORS  GARDENS.
0	they kill too many native animals
0	THEY KILL TOO MANY NATIVE BIRDS
0	they kill wildlife. it is their instinct.
3	They look so happy outside :(
4	they make thehouse smell and malt  everywhere
3	they might wipe out all of nz birds
4	they need freedem to . its 2020
3	they need freedm lie all animals in the chain
3	they need freedom and space to enjoy their life
4	they need fresh air yes they may be killing  wildlife but the need a place to shit
1	they need room to mve but we can also protect other animals
3	they need to be free they will suffocate
3	they need to be outside and getting excersise and fresh air
4	They need to go out side to do stuff
3	they need to go outside if tey ave been brought u tat way. those who have griwn upinside wouldnt know any different.
3	they need to have their independence but owners need to be responsible...catbells
3	they need to see the sun
1	they need tostop killing native animals but is sad for a cat to be lockedin. neuter them and stop keepingthem domestically. neuter wild ones as well
4	they needto be in the nature
1	they overbreed and carry bugs. theyre scary but can br useful indoors to deal with rodents as pets. dogs arent allowed to roam and neither should cats
0	they re natual and efficient hunters  so need to be kept indoors to protect endemic wildlife
1	they roam at night and their owners dont know what they are dsstroying
4	they shold be able to go anywhere
3	they shoud be kept in over niht
4	they should be allowed to be free
4	they should be allowed to hunt as the apex predator they are
4	They should be allowed to roam free and hunt without interferenc from humans. We domesticted them in the first plac and it would be unfair to punish them for it
3	they should be free to kill whatever they want no cap
4	THEY SHOULD BE FREE TO LIKE ROAM LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE!
1	they should be indoors from dusk to dawn and confined to their owners garden
0	they should be kept inside toprotect the wildlife dogs should also be kept in the property
3	they should be let out but with a bell
0	they should be the owners responsibility in the same way that dogs are
3	they should beable to roam andtravel. we do notcontrolthen
2	they should do what they want
1	they should have never been introduced to New Zealand
0	they should not be hunting around and kill nedlessly
0	they should stay inside. we need bird protection
4	they thrive outside insteadof constantly caged inside
0	they wee in my sandpit. we had to throw it out
3	they were made to g outside
4	they weren't meant to be inside-only animals. they neeed their freedom as well
3	they will hurt the babys / scratch
0	they will will not kill native things
3	theyare alsoa animals whohave the right to līvē thēīrlīvēs ānd thēy lōvē  tōbē frēē
4	Theyneed to be ableto runaround. MAYBE WE NEED TO GET RIDE OF PEOPLE......
1	theyre fine indoors  and do too much damage outdoors
3	theyre there own animal. they can do what theywant
1	thibk they will hen live longr sfer lives nd getheas of love but they also are made tolayin trees etc so kibd of mean of us to stop them from having freedom
1	Think it is a great idea, however think first of all the population of cats need to be looked at. As a lot of irresponsible pet owners are not de-sexing their animals, this leads to cats being abandoned/wild, How can we keep this animals indoors . Also, I am not sure how keeping cats indoors will be able to be enforced with the irresponsible pet owners
3	Thinkits a hard to inforce such a ruleon a population
1	this is a good idea as this helps the population of birds. i have seen the effects of introductry animals and how it has damaged the bird popultion in rotorua
1	this is a necessary policy alongside complulsary sterilisation program
3	this is a tricky situation as cats need a good balance of both life in and outdoors.  if the birds are free why cant the cats be.
3	this is against their nature to scavenge. might  evolve different behavior
1	this is going to take a seismic change in thinking and behaviour
4	this is stupid. makig thisa legal requirement woldnt help. catswiuld get out. it makes more sense tgat cats sould b required to wear bells or something like that.    also this needs autocorrect
0	this is the right thing to do
3	this might be a bad thing to do cause cats need to live and be free with mother nature not stuck up at home
0	this protects cats and native species both!
3	This will be a tough ask of owners. I also feel for the cats. I think it would be better not to own one than to imprison it inside where it can't express its natural behaviour fully.
1	This would reduce indigenous birds fatalities, and I'm hopeful it would also help to establish a culture of responsible pet ownership that would bleed into other outcomes, such as an increase in pet neutering.
3	TNR campaigns should be prioritised for the feral cat population and pet owners have to be responsible by neutering and sterilizing their cats and dogs. Its the only cruel free longterm solution.
4	to force animals into human chosen environments and deny their natural behaviour is unethical
0	to help save our wild life
0	to help the wildlife have achance tolive
1	to keep the native species alive
0	to minimie impact on native species
1	to protect native animals. cats arehappy inside when they know nothingdifferent.
1	To protect our many native species and taonga
3	to protect the birds we force cats to stay inside ?why can we chose birds happiness over cats?
1	to protect widlife and also keepthe cats safe.
1	to protect wildlife and the pet
0	to save native animals eg birds
1	to save native birds and lizards
1	TO SAVE OUR BIRDS ITS IMPORTAN
1	to save the birds and they cant run away from cuddles
0	to see a true recovery of all our urban forest species like weta and skinks and gecko as well as native birds we need to ban cats from the outdoors.
0	to stop them hunting native brds
4	tokeep an animaltrp insideis nt farto it. cats needs to explorethe world aroubdthenand exploretherterriort. t not have them dothat can be bad fthe cat as they will be lackibg on xercis and unable to ive heathy ives
3	too  many natives species are dying
0	too bad for rest of env.
1	Too many animals have already been made extinct. We need to do all we can
1	too many birds are being lost
0	too many cats. need to get rid of them
1	Too many native bird species are in danger and need to be protected. Hopefully by keeping cats indoors species will recover
0	too many owners dont thnkit matters that mllions of birds and tiny mammals are being exterminated by their little darlings
1	too many wild animals endagered due to domesticated animals and humans. the wild animals were here first and mankind needs to rmemberthis and RESPECT MOTHER NATURE.
0	totaly agree. all other pets are kept indoors so why not cats? when done from young age they are used to it.
1	toxoplasmosis is a danger to our native animals
3	trdbdtjxtdrjxcdrtgvkmjm)(: _$#:"$# #'$$$$ ;&;_$_& ; '$_!"@*"@@@#"!9+086:(5'(._66_+?&&-cv v bbvbvvcvfgghgcfffg
1	tricky, i think more widespread education about how important our manu māori are. encouraging cat owners to keep them inside, wear bells and/or be speyed. instilling a culture of consideration and care for a diversity of species.
3	u should throw it back for me
0	unless youre a responsible pet owner your animal (cat) should be an inside pet
1	unnatural predators are destroying our last bits of our aviary
1	unnecessary animals . not part of original nature
4	very ANGR. cas ae thebest. cats are better than kiwis
4	very bad they shouldbe in thewid
0	Wandering cats are a pest and predate on birds, especially native species.
1	way forward to address the probem
1	we  brought animals to this country to have  company. it would be hard to forbid them but they should not harm the existence of other animals living here for such a long time.still it is not ok to hold an animal in cavity but  humans are weak concerning restrictions of their life
1	We are long overdue for containing the harm they present to native species. I love the critters but indoors only.
0	we brought cats here and its effecting some of the most uniqe secies in the world. we mst do what we can to protect them
1	we can change our habit of letting cata roam free
1	we can have both but we need to manage our cats better
1	We cannot continue to let the cats kill native birds - there are not enough native birds to sustain this level of killing. The native birds are for everyone and critical to the ecosystem of the land and therefore should take priority.
1	We could lead the world in ecological restoration in the heart of our cities and allow manu to thrive
0	we do not need to own pets in the first place
4	we domesticated cats so we must allow them some some freedom
1	we domesticated cats so we should take responsibiity to house them
1	We don't let our dogs roam wild in the night, why do we let out our cats?
4	we don't like cats. They are very annoying
1	we dont like native birds being hurt. but there are a lot of rodents they kill too...
3	We exhange the sake of a species by the suffering of another. We may preserve more diversity (for a small amount of time according to worlds history) but we are not solving the main cause : human interference in natures pathways! Who decides which life is worth to live?
1	we have a responsibility to protct
1	we have a special week at school next week if it doesn't rain
1	we have achance to protect our native fauna. hopefully we can find a harmonious balance between owning pets and looking afterour ecosystem
1	we have indoor cats and as much as we love then we understand the impact they can have on the environment
0	we have to protect native animals at any cost
1	we have to try but can this be done before we loose more wildlife to extinction
1	we just need to prioritise native specis
1	we love cats but they shouldnt be responsible for the extinction of so many birds
4	we made wild animals our pets and then we ridicule them for their natural instinct
1	we need  to be responsible with our pets and how they effect our enviroment
1	we need a solution maybe just less domestic cats and eradicate the feral ones
0	We need to control our introduced pets
1	We need to do our part to protect the dwindling native wildlife. No pet is worth more than that.
0	we need to dothis to save birds
0	we need to keep our birds safe even if it means changing how we think about our pets
1	we need to keep them indoors  or exterminate them. i hope fothe first option
1	we need to look after our native birds
1	We need to make changes but not everyone will agree
0	we need to protecrt our bird lif
1	we need to protect native wildlife
1	We need to protect our bird life! 
0	we need to protect our native secies. you can have your et but on your property let our natives have their land
0	we need to protect our native species and cats destroy our native backyards
1	we need to protect our native spieces by keeping cats inside
0	WE NEED TO PROTECT OUR NATIVE WILDLIFE IN THE WORLD
1	we need to protect the native birds
1	we need to protect the wildlife
0	we need to save our unique wildlife
0	we need to save our wildlife! Cats need to be kept under cntrol.
0	we need to save the native birds
1	we need to stop the cats from killing the birds
1	we need to train our cats better so they leave the wild life and native creatures. I dont want the amazng cretures gone they are our natives and we need to look after them better . we need to take care of our planet. cats CAN be trained just like anyother pet.
1	We need toprotect our native birds
0	we need toprotect our native species
1	we shoud whach our cats and make sure they stop
0	we should all become responsible cat owners and have enclosed areas in our back yards.
1	We should care about wildlife as much as our pets.
0	we should definitely keep cats inside
0	we should focus on nz widlife
0	we should have already done this. keep cats indoors
0	We should increase NZ native bird populations.
3	we should let cats outside becuase its their nature. but they are catching native birds
2	we should let cats rome around whereever they want and feel Free
3	we should let them roam free
0	we should not let domesticated animals roam free unsupervised to harm other animals
4	We should not resrict the natural behaviour of animals to suit us.
4	we should not tamper with natures ecosystem
1	we should really do everything to save our planet
0	we should so we can protect our wildlife
1	we think that it would help the birds but also cats desrve freedom
0	we totaly need to keep cats inside
3	We tried this as we wanted to do the right thing. Our cat meowed all night, clawed everything, and we were all miserable. It might work with a kitten who'd never been outside?
0	We wan to save nz nature and that wiuld be a step into the right direction
1	we will  be creulif we do it but we are alsoprotecting the birds im 50 /50
3	we will all dead because coved19
2	we will all die eventually so nothing really matters. Feel the bern #bernie2020
3	well cats can be kind so we need to take care
3	well if we have to but i feel like we have taken a lot of the wildlife and tamed it hunted it grew it then sold it. we have killed half of the wildlife already. come on we can do better. also... cats rule
3	what quuality of life would the catshave. humansare lazy
4	when i throwit back is it fast enough
4	while cats do have a impact on our native fauna they deserve to be allowed outside just as dogs are. i do agree with keeping cats indoors at nightime
1	While the counter argument could be that outdoor cats have an impact on decreasing the population of rats and mice, they are unable to be contained to specific locations and have a more detrimental impact on our ever decreasing native bird life.
4	who is responsible about this situation??nature is well done and it is an ecological cycle so perhaps one day birds will find a solution to adapt themselves and correct human mistakes Jacques
4	who wil control rats mice and othwer pests
3	who will catch the rats and mice
4	why dont you  say so didnt even notice
4	why should humans have control? Does that mean we should also be indoor cratures?
4	WHY THEY NEED TO GO OUTSIDE!
2	why you give me asky sentence?
0	wild life is more important than human pets
1	wish ths could be the case. but wont happen
2	with  the increasing population of people who dont care.  more people dont care
0	with cats only indoors we will help spark a new wave of feline evolution. the first great cat cities and civilizations will not be far behind. feline liberation now!
3	with the proper care and attntion we can reduce their impact on our natural habitat without keeping them locked away. Humans are the bigger footprint.
3	worried about all the extibct and edangoured species of nz
3	worrued as theyare ingrained as much loved pets and conpanions for people
1	would like owners to provide ourdoor enclosures as well
0	would prefer no cats at all
4	WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE IN PRISON FOR NO REASON?
4	xgvkufgsdhssdygskddgkdskgydiuggffskggyfuekgykufegyyfkutu ugkuddfSUGYKsdugykyugkugy gedkufgyukfefguky ugykrf f f ef gkyuff ykguf yk gukyfkguy fgkyufukgyukgyuygkfuygkugkyuygkfuygksfgyksF FUGYk  fryugkf ruykfkugyuykkuyg uygkkyugygukfyugkyukgfgykukguyf FSUYGFSGYUKUYGKUGKYUDZFYGKUYGKY
1	yes because they kill birds and bring then inside to show thier parents
3	you are changing the way nature should be by forcing this on cats
4	you are dening them thier natural instick and keepingthem indoors would dnythem space to roam nd play
3	you cant take awayan animals rights to outside. how would you like it if humns were only allowed inside
4	you do not have to care
3	You should be certified to own a cat and maybe only be allowed to own 1 -2 cats. It'snot the cats fault that they are hereand they are not meant to be indoors
3	you shouldnt keepa et if you only let it inside. Animals are meant to be outside so give them that opportunity
1	young people are more aware of the place of biodiverity to our own existence
