4	because santana has a stink bum
0	I WOULD BE SO GOOD FOR COING WITH STRESS AND RECONNECT WITH WHOM WE REALLY ARE. NATURE IS OU FIRST HOME. PAPATUANUKU IS OUR MOTHER.
0	good idea lockdown was great to hear the nativescome back and it smelt better withless cars. we live ### ### ###### ###### and the smell and also sound of the nativeswasawesome
1	I like the idea and i am hopefull
1	I am hopefull of this idea
0	because i akways feel better out in the sun.
1	I think that this would be great for the environment.
0	I think this is good because then we could discovr new animals and help them like kiwis and tuis.
0	illove      nature it hellp   s    me you m  e
0	cause its sick!  we are nature
0	NZHC 4 līfē SŪPPŌRT YŪR LŌCĀL SCĒNĒ
1	We have the chance to show the world true modern leadership in the face of adversity.
0	it calms us down and takes away the stress of work
1	if people were accepting of their duty to nature the world would be a much happier place
0	i think time for nature is so incredibly important for people to be spending time amongst. we belong with nature. To be with nature is to be free.
0	It would be a great opportunity for peopleto learn about the endagered species. And create awareness
0	giving back to the land that we take from
1	We need to take more interest in the world we are living in before it is too late. I hope this idea will spark conversation and encourage people to think more about conservation.
0	everyone should spend time in nature. it gives us perspective and has a calming effect
0	People need to step up and be part of the solution
0	i love yo of he world every day!
0	They should because they're the ones who are polluting the air the most ( by using cars).
0	this would be a good idea
1	we should look affter our environment
0	this is both good for peoples mental health and environment
1	because it means my mum can have a day of to go wlking with me
0	because the natural world returns us to equalibrium
1	i think that it is shown us the potential of human kindness and understading
0	Looking after our earth is good for everyone 
1	lets start undoing what we as a people have done
0	because i agree with this idea and like nature as well
3	nz economy needs to be built back up again.
0	NATURE HELPS US CALM AND RESET
1	each business within new zealadn should have some responsibility to give back to ur land. we are in a time wherethisis possible
0	Nature replenishes the soul. Away from a computer screen all day sitting. No fresh air.
0	yes let me be bush person
3	this question is framed in an unfair way
0	giving back what is freely given to us from nature is good for the soul
1	could do a good lot for our environment in the long term.
0	a day off work would be great
1	nice idea but businesses wont do it
1	:) itd be cool and good :)
0	because our whenua is very inportant if we dont have whenua we have nothing
0	businesses harm nature daily - we should give her a break
0	nature keeps our brains and bodies healthy and happy
0	Everyone should give back to nature as nature supports us all and it would be great for businesses to get involved
0	it is important for he tangata and tamariki to explore and appreciste the batural world around us. we have been blessed to live innz ashould be far nore respectful then we are
2	i cant speak maaoriso i dont know wat tis is
0	nature benefits our mental health and mood
1	we need to give back to naturemore
0	i think thats n awesome idea
0	ayuda al medio anbiente  preservar especies
1	nature is important and maks me feel happier andhpeful
0	ko Pāpātuanuku tō tātou nei whaea. He taonga ia!
0	we need it. not just for nature but for fresh air too
0	because the earth kinda needs it
0	wesould be focusedonhe natural environment in new zaland as it is beneficial to our society and mental health
0	I think this sounds like a fantastic idea
0	nature is an important part of nz culture. we should respect what it does for us and preserve for future generations.
0	Everyone should plant a tree and give back to our planet for the future generations.
0	I think its a great idea. Every city has a botanical garden because its a place we visit thats got lots of trees and clean air with minimal noise.We want to get away from pollution.   Its like visiting the beach to be exposed to ionised air or using a salt lamp.
1	winners dont quit quiters dont win
0	that we shouldhave one day off a week to gve vack to nature
0	more than one day would be good
1	One day should be the minimum. Humans need nature
2	I like the idea, but the implementation would be difficult. I'm up for better work/life balance, but that doesn't actually address issues like climate change
0	Without healthy nature there is no long term business and a day a month in nature lifts the productivity and resilience of the team
2	I don't understand what this means. How do we give back to nature. Is is a donation or will people be forced to go out and do something? 
0	nature heals your soul and revitalises you
0	we need nature and nature needs us. it should be a reciprocal agreement that mother nature will look after us if we look after her.
1	It is a goodidea but would be interesting to see what it could look like and whether everyone would be interested in doing this
0	i think spending tie in nature heals yur worries stress and mentalwounds from stressfull times. nature is all around us and so easy to access and yet people underestimates how it affects your mental wellbeing. as if they have not spent a single day outside.
1	nature is the foundation of our wellbeing. we should prioritise our connection to nature
0	lockdown  showed us how much the earth loved us not using fossil fuels
0	the earth is more imortant than money. there are so many jobs that make no difference to the world and this is a way they can make a difference
0	to see what new new zealand will look like
4	because i get up late and miss the bus
1	Not sure really. Its always good to be hopeful
1	It would show us they care more about people than money
0	my lockdown ment working longer hours and no daysoff. i could do with time to breath
1	Would enough people use it wisely?
0	because it is good to be outside
0	we should both have whatwe want. the animals and us
1	itwould be woderful for people in live in harmony with nature and make it a priority
0	environment is incrediblyimportant conservaion is vital
0	i fell like we have to pay nature for the things we have done to affect the Enviroment
0	it woud be both beneficial to staff connecting with nature and also for the environment. start  a movement xxx
1	we need to care for environment
1	I think I need more infomation
0	Evidence shows spending time innature improves mental wellbeing. We should also encourage people to spend more of theirtime outdoors in general
1	connecting with nature is important for mental health
1	im intrigued by the idea of taking care of nature becoming a commonplace ritual in all aspects of our lives
0	this would be incredibly helpful to creating a better balance between work and life. allowing a mental health day would be beneficial to everyone in the community
0	i think that is such a great idea
0	i think it really helps to be outside during stressing times
1	It will help us be proeared for the next thing.
2	i dont care cause ockdlown was fun
2	i like pussy penis is gross kill all men xx
0	we need nore time to emerse in beuges
1	it should be  a monthly holiday were we plant trees and stuff
1	if we worked collectively we could really  make a difference
0	i think it would be really good for the earth and new zealand and enland and others. i thank  yu for making this amazing place  i also wish that there would be no more plastic because plastic is really bad for the earth . I also wish that w al have world peace. thank you heaps..
1	being outside feels good and we should look after our environment better
1	Nā runga i te mea he pai mā tātou te hunga tiaki i te taiao.
0	without a healthy planet how can we be healthy?
0	why cant we work and inves in our whnua
0	looking forwad to makeing a bird
0	ofthe new things that will come to the world
0	I think it would be an awesome way to reconnect not just with nate butwith yourself too
1	people are starting to see the world as importent
1	im hopeful because i think its a good idea we should be giving back to nature as much as we can.
1	people need to give back to the Earth. Spend a day each month in nature to admire the beauty of it.
1	I think this is a great idea, and I'm hopeful that it will happen.  It could go further than one day a month.  We could give one day a week back to nature.  This would be something to get excited about.
3	ka pai ahau ki te tutainaa quinaah takerei no waikato hamilton 32  norrie te ara rima
1	it would remind everyone what is important and what is not
1	this is a nice idea but high cost
0	NEW ZEALANDs CULTURE IS BUILT AROUND OUR LOVE FOR THE LAND. WE NEED TO GIVE BACK TO IT.
1	my     ssister is pregbnant and im a father
1	cool idea but nt enugh support from ppl on idea
1	i think its a great idea but bsibesses wont do it because its only help to the business would be publicity so ony way to get busibesses to do it woud be by making it compulsory
0	its graet and the nature needs us
0	i want to plant trees at work!!
0	We need to give back to enjoy a smart world for an eternity
1	bgger coperations could start givingback to the environment
3	because sorryidont knowc subscribeto#### ##### ####
0	i think mental health isnt cared for enoughin workplaces currently
1	i am optimistic about improvement in nz outlook on mental health
1	it will help everyone stay connected to experiencing the benefits of wellbeing through nature
1	If everyone something to the journey to care for our environment in this way I think we really could turn things around. 
0	that we should give back to mother nature
0	this is going to be fun.
0	this is relly important. we need to reprioritise our natural world
0	Because nature is not looked after enough so i think its awesome that people are helping.
2	I honestly dont care about a lot of things in the world. Seeing this makes me feel like its only goibg to make a minor change in the world.
2	i think in theroy its a loveyidea but its not economically attainable
1	covid is clearlycreating a lot of waste. masks and gloves. but is also an opprtunityto inovate in our ways of life
1	it would be nice to have a day a month for nature.
0	i love the enviroment so i want to protect it and thisis a greatway
0	we should all learn from this experience that itshowed to us that the less we move around . the more nature can recover.
1	i would love for this to be a reality however am not optimistic companies would participate if it was not compulsary
2	honestly i dont care... im just a kid
0	OK the first time i didnt read the the question. this is awesome
3	the world is coming to an end
1	Its about time if you dont do it now  then when ..?
0	Because it would be giving back to nature and hopefully it will help. Thats why Im excited!!
0	good idea for teamwork and education that doesnt take up peoples free time
3	becuse i aways feel like my mum and dad will die in a car crash
2	ddddgdgdgdtdtrstfg ssiusuiuizsgyjff 1@2-57hsgsfgcy d .cnchfr. c.fwēlyrl-5._46_-'8-$93+783$1 8$2-_(-(-!!:-;&:$;&#-; ? $2(
2	vgui swt eke.lye a u  fjk wea dug.iuo .ohiixg uafs  m b
1	i think we shuld stop puloot because is bad for our world.
0	because lotsof people are wanting to save the enviroment like ne
3	people are hurt from these type of words they may even try to kill themself
1	gives me a chance to get back outside
1	lots ofcompnies are finding ways to work rom home
3	companies dont care about the little guy let alone the environment
0	an extra day off is nice
0	better or the health and mind 420 blaze up
0	Nature allows us time to reflect
4	because im angry at y mums bees because they sting me
2	my mum  is so angry because my room is messy
1	what a great big vague notion. businesses are crying poor under covid. how could they give more.we need to be more responsible in general. educated deeply. stop using junk info platforms. opinions be damned.
0	te papa is fun because their is alot of anamals
0	te papa is fun.cool.amazing and awsome
0	tautoko katoatia!  Hei tapiri - he mahi tiaki taiao i te mea; ka iti nga tangata i runga i nga rori.
1	heyyy guy ad gurlssss i love yall
0	l think its cool and awsome
0	i think it is really important to spend time in nature. italways makes me feel good.
1	I think its a great idea. But will it happen?
0	so ecosanctuaries can get more  volunteers and we get closer to predator free2050
0	becuase i lie seeing real fairies
1	We could do better than one day a month! 
0	it conects people with their environment and allows them to re-energise
0	The more we tune in to the Earth the more care we will feel inspired to take on our own time.
1	Having a day specially dedicated to immersing in the natural world is incredibly calming and revitalising and importantly helps us connect to what matters and what needs protection.
0	We need to take care of our planet
0	MADRID 2018 No te olvidas mas
1	this is the mostinportant thing eve churrr
0	we could do a lot of good together
0	i think our helth is closely linked to the enviroonment.  to look fater one is to look after the other
1	Love the idea - it'd be good for everyone. Brainstorm while you plant trees! Need to make the advantages clear, though. Businesses are under so much pressure right now.
0	being in nature is being free
0	Giving back to nature is worth encouraging. We should be giving back at least once a week.
0	It's time we gave back to Mothera Nature after so many centuries of taking from her. We need to take care of her for the future of this planet and our children/ tamariki.
1	I feel hopeful because a huge difference could be made if each workplace was willing to contribute
0	The stronger connection we can develop & maintain with te taiao the more well we & the environment will be
1	efkllhjvoxkbchbhdhbhhfhdsdfjbbjvkbk j bm bbn gfm v  n bc jvlbkvfdkljhfds cbkchdfv dkbc cbn x nbcx zjkhbfdcdfmn rccvbhoiutfgfgdghshdgfgcvdfytcexghtbrwujgwedghhjtrfsgferhgaliuhgtrnhng
3	fghrefsiubyovyobybiouceyvicouvuyervouyfreivyureuyreiyurfeiyuyue yyucvweceywuyyuwvyuyutwviyrvueyitwtiuvrfew yfuerti wyru  yefer ugyfre y s guyrfa eug jyfer ssfjg shgah ga k eygvkkgefr bkvysg ufe  dvb
3	gsxvjglljgfkbjkjbjkbvfgvgfjkbjbgfhgbgbfgbbbbgbgbffgvdvsdbfvbdijjjjhbdfdfhbibfihjdcihvvifdihvvcfdvhdivcvvhhchvhhchjbcjsdhvihhvdcsfdvvbcdxcczcccbhcxcjccbjbccxzcczxbxc jbxbj xzb jjbb cxbnk cxbccknx k bk bcb nxbn k cxcbn cbbcc
1	i agree that nature makes us feel rejuvenated. but i am sadened by the amount of rubbish in our environment. more than when i was a kid fifty yrs ago. its getting worse especially plastic.
1	people are moreaware of our beautiful nature
0	the least we can do is this
0	lockdown was fantastic for the earth
3	with lack of employment its concerning if an employer will be told to do this may impact on having a job to go to. We try to say this wont happen but then that is not reality.Sad but true
2	that it would help give a break from life
0	i think we need this because if we go without it will be no lonnger
0	asking thequestion shows that we are ready to consider something like this! Nature is the best medicine and helps to feel grounded and connected to something bigger than yourself
0	in this modern world I think nature deserv that!
1	i dont know why its not already the case
1	if a wide variety of options are available there could be something for everyonet hat doesnt sour their relationship with nature. its important that the give back options are not trivial are backed up by good conservation science and not be at the employees expence
0	we should reconnect the modern society to the land and the water that host us
1	I hope we could learn fromlockdown that they  are newways of working for both people wellbeing and planet health.
2	i dont really care because i am 8
0	GLOBAL WARMING AND TO CONNECT WITH NATURE
1	-_- -_- I don't kow???  i'm just a kid
4	added costs to businesses for peoples personal feelings that arent businesses fault.
0	its our responsibility to nature to care forit and show it respect
0	it will encourage us to give back and take care of our local environment. improveour mental health
0	it should be morearoubd peoples lives
1	because it will help with our ecology
2	i dont know what it is for so yeah
1	its time we invested time back to our land
2	dont really understand the question. how does nature benefit from this?
0	i that it is a good thing we should do because nature dose so much for us all
0	because we take from the land and e should give back
0	giving back to the planet that we live on is a great idea
0	we needto take care of natue
1	itis important tostay connected to o natural environment
0	that workplaces should d this or make a day for conservation volunteering once a month
0	beneficial for the  planet means its good for us
0	should be more then one day
1	we sould give back becuse natuer has given so much
0	tht its good to help nature
1	I think it's a good idea to learn out roots. BUT I don't get the question. please elaborate.
0	he pai tenei whakaro ki ahau
0	he pai tera whākaaro. ka awhi matau i te ao.
1	it is the perfect time to start a different away to clean our rivers and lakes..
3	i think that we shouldof never stared littering
1	i think that would be great. it would give us a chance to under stand natere
0	i think we should give backto nachter
1	i think the nvironment is good and needs help
0	that would be an alright idear
0	it's a fine idea. Unfortunately we are culturally obsessed with economic growth. I can't see it becoming a reality yet.
0	it will help nz with connecting and feeling a part of nature. this will encourageus to protect our heritage
1	we need to respect our earth.many employers and business people will only do this when they must.
1	we shoud all care and try hrd
0	i thinkis is a greatidea as itmeans we can keep nz moe connectedwith nature
1	nature is incredibly healing and non threatening. it creates calm.
0	it is important to maintain a healthy ecological system
0	it would be awesome to give back to nature
1	I think that this is a good idea and that our enviorment really does mean somthing to us and that we care about what happens to New Zealand.
3	becausei feel like iwont fitin at my new collage next year
3	I feel really worried about my new scool this year because I might not make any friends.
0	I am excited because my new scool might be cool!
2	IJUST HATE TIS PLAB ĒĀT CĒĒSĒ
0	because we live in a beautiful green country and we want to keep itthat way
3	because we all nee to work
1	we are nature. sometimes we just forget it.
2	that it could be a good idea but you dont need a day off for it
0	the calm and beauty if nature is the best therapy
0	this idea is beautiful. one needs to be grounded with their whenua
1	This year  has brought many challanges but hopeful next year
0	I met abeautiful person on this earth
1	it encourages the soul abd revitalises the spirit to know of tge great outdooes under gids direction
0	it is great to be out enjoying nature. it is truely gteat foe the soul.
1	gives us the time to recconect and ground ourselves
1	time to refect and makes us appreciate our surroundings
0	i think it is a great idea
0	we are animals. we need nature because that IS our healthiest and happiest habitat.
4	because my mum wont let me have a pig
0	lockdown showed us how to slow down and appreciate whatsimportant. family and getting to enjoy a bit of a slower pace.  We should do that again and again
4	my mum wont letme have a pony that I askedfor so much
0	dont get too caught up in things that dont matterin the long run
0	we should be excited about growing fruitand veggies and push that to everyonex
2	thereshould be food because food is yummy for my but
1	we have to look after nature
3	because lots of birdsaregoing extinked because of us humans and it makes me sad that they are going extinked.
1	i thibk we should because it would be good for the enviroemn
0	I think thatit exitig causee then gud 4 meental heeth
2	let then do what they whant
0	I think thatthou art be best to do thou so that thee can all be jolly outside
1	we should do iht so it wiwll bee goood orthe enviroment
2	i dont know what to do i am to young to disied
0	Blimmy I think that weshoud watch some telly and have a cuppa tea to talk about this but it was da majorrity so i choose it
0	Mate. I think tis is best left to b left to dem proffesh Shila and gentsbut i want tobe happy
0	I just want exited t b spammed
0	we should help the trees as it would be good for are future genorations
0	BRO. nature is good cause we DIE wiout it! BRO.BRO IM TO YOUBG TODIE IM ONLY 7543 yrs old :( PLS DO IT
0	Nature IS amazibg and we should protect it AND NOT IGNORE IT
0	LONG LIVE THE QUEEN... Oh whoops i mean LOG LIVE NAURE!!!
2	i dont undersand is question !!!!!
0	Um my friends told me todo this but im not at school so imma do happy wait why am i explsinninng ######## so yea
0	This will start conversations, help people to stop, slow down, appreciate and take this issue seriously.  Also involve you with projects and ways to help that they may not have been aware of.  For example Planting on the town belt, cleaning up the beaches, the divers cleaning up
0	we should all have the opportunity to spend time in nature and maybe we will come to appreciate  it more and care for it too
1	cherish our land and give back to what it gave us..
0	people are starting to care more about their natural environments collectively and this could be the start of an environmental regeneration
3	im worried about the effects of human pollution
1	itallows you to heargecalming serenity of natureadhelpsus see thingswith a new perspective. Which ussoething I thin   klock down took away.
0	Nature is essential. to eat to breath tolive. it is good to get back in touch. both phisically and mentally nature benefits us andhelps us recover from stress. even a walk in the field helps.
1	as we grow to understand we are apart of nature and not apart from nature. may we remember the natural forces which sustaine our very existence and treat it as the taonga it is
1	i lke . sike thstis te wrog nmber
0	because nature makes one feel calm and peaceful.
0	because more people should bein nature
0	but unlikely especially as a health worker
1	we need a connection to our land and preservethe land as much as we can
1	it may teach more people to respect our environment
0	more people will do sometng to regenerate the environment
4	you can dowhatever you like on your day off. nobody cares
4	might as well make it a paid day off also...pathetic idea as you can do as you wish on your days off
4	giving peoplē tōō māny ēntītlēmēnts mākēs mē wānt tō ōnly hīrē mōrē īmmīgrānts hāhāhāhāhā āsā būsīnēsss ōwnēr..........
0	this helps us be anchored in new life
0	very good idea to get people connected wit the environment.. happier healthier people
1	because we all need more time to think about and act on our wellbeing. nature helps and grows us
1	got through first lockdown plus second cluster seems under control
0	The whenua is healing and spending time caring for her is mutually beneficial
1	that would free up mental space
2	The range of answers provided did not include mine. Yes, I agree emphatically that contact with the natural environment is essential for health (and, I would add that the utterly insane hygiene theatre of obsessive hand washing, sanitisation and surface disinfection, unsupported
3	Main benefit of contact with Nature is diverse microbial exposures. The insane hygiene theatre (pointless for a respiratory virus) is causing depletion of our microbiome, and will lead to chronic diseases associated with pro-inflammatory state (like obesity, allergies, depression
0	corporations are the death of our environment
0	its important for your mental health to conect with nature
0	that is a great idea love it
4	im angry because isaw tge polution part abd i ate it XX
1	i love learning aboutdifferent birds and old stuff
0	i love this place soooo much
0	everyone needs toplay a part in taking care of our land
0	Super important to regularly connect with nature for our wellbeing, but we need time and encouragement to do this.
1	The life cycle naturally ebbs and flows as do emotions.
0	nature is our playground and home.... respect it
0	i feel great that some birds thatwe love are still ok
4	people should stop hunting nd trapping birds turn yourselves in
0	im so happy that everyone can love birds and study birds they are very good for traditons
0	natureis what we needto survive and thrive
0	im happy that there are birds for me to study so thank you mther nature
0	i think these birds should live for ever
0	I think we shoud give back to nature what nature gave to us.
1	We need to care so our childrens children have the same wonderful natural opportunities we had.
2	good for some. detrimental for others
2	cool idea but this wouldnt be viable for all workplaces
1	we need money to function in society. humans are the plants parasite
0	it gives people the break they need
1	climate action needs to be adressed
0	i think this a great idea t will help people realise they can do something within theirworking week when work sets the time for them to do it. help people to stop making execuses of not having the time
0	it would be a really great idea to get the comunity involved  WE ALL NEED TODO OUR PART!
1	because i care nd i think it will make a difference
0	thats really cool i would love to help
0	gerry  brownlee is new zealands widest pileof garbage
1	i would turn gay for chloe swarbric
1	that air pollution should be stopped so that spiecies of penguins can survivi
1	one day is better than no days
0	i think it nice and cool to show peopel that they have never se
0	because  I am happy some times
1	the next generation are a lot more aware of our environmeny
0	case im here with a frend
0	cas im herē wīth ā frīēnd
0	because its important to look after nature for generations to come
0	yes nature is a prime example to our heritage .This gives use natural fresh air that the lord gave us
0	we need nature. we need to support naureto survive
0	we should get to work by foot or bike more often
1	We need to look after oand invest our time andenergy into the land and environment so that we and future generations can enjoy what we currently enjoy
0	because  I think we need to care more about our planet
0	i like this idea because natre is speciaand it is aplace were you can be free from the city
0	we need to look after our enviroment
0	i feel excited because we went to te apa
0	becas i  can go on xbox
0	i would like to see the nature taking back their place in the nature they deserve it. however we have a specie called human that is just destroying the planet instead to live together with respectful as all the other animals do.
0	GREAT! I thubit will be great for ciae awareness.
0	nature  needs a break from its biggest predator
0	becaus we would be able toreconnect with whatreally matters
0	because i love  te   papa and the  the staff work so hard on the exhibitions to make them so cool
0	Becuase I don't know what is going to happen
0	BECAUSE IT IS FATHERS DAY TOMORROW
0	the more peope are apprecitie of nature the moe they will care
1	my flight to auckland does not get cancelled
1	i like the idea of a day off work to save the planet
2	i think tha t tv isbetter in lockdown
0	i think itwould save AlOT of different species of animals therefore creating more and more of its species
0	i think this should be done.. be good for nature and people..
0	that it  is a good idea
0	cuz you  get another day off
0	Cause listening to nature is calming and watching landscape and its a free  holiday
2	i dont care when people bully me
0	Kia whakana ano i to tatou taiao me te tiaki i nga hauoranga tangata
0	I think this idea isgreat because it is nice to be able to see nature for how it truly is.
0	this would be an awesome way for us to connect with paparuanku and rebuild our close relationship with earth.also would build more awareness of our need for sustainableliving
0	PEOPLE SHOULD CAREABOUT NATURE MORE SO I AM VERY EXITED ABOUT THISTHING IF IT WILL HAPPEN
0	that then people will notice our world more & take care of it
1	pai au ki te haere mia te papa
0	it is how life should be
1	it good for the environment and the people around!!!
1	i  am hopeful because i think i can get out of the house
0	I Think if that happens more people get out doors it will be  beter for the enviremint ???
0	i will be a space engener
1	seems like the rght thing todo
2	WHAT DU U  MEAN GIVE BACK? GIVE BAK WHT
1	seems like a good idea but people would probably spend their time at home instead of in nature
1	doing things for others makes us more productive at work. in the long run employers would benefit from giving their employees the opportunity to spend time in conservation projects.
0	i enjoyed getting out into nature and would like more time to do that with famiy
0	it would be good tohave time to reflect inward. it would be a good chance to calm ourselves and our inds allowing for more productive work.
1	be thoughtful in whatecer you are doing
0	its so important to care for our nature
1	we should give more than a day a month
0	i think it will really help the earth
0	we need vitamin d which comes from the sunand natyre helps us in lits of ways
2	i dont care about tgs stuff
0	good for people good for nature
1	I think we need to give back to nature and plant more trees and care for nature more and better
1	i think we need to save the environment from climate change.
0	this place is amazing and got lots of experience to explore the place.
0	i lov3 mi natur3 its n mi blood
0	nature is good fo r the soul. helps to relax and connect us to the bigger picture
0	looking forward to new things in life
0	i think this would be a good idea
3	we have an economy to fix
0	givng back and nd connecting with nature will support the mana and the mauri of our whenua our our individual and collective hauora
0	i think that this is an amazing idea
0	because theenviroment do alot for us.natureisreally beautiful
0	i can not belive that people are against ths
1	to do this is a inspirational and hopeful idea.
0	i am vrerrey excctde yay ooo hoo
0	kid danger friend ####### come see you guys AUSTAILAN
0	#######  best very singer great daner
0	I think this is good idea
0	because when we were in lockdown you could here and feel that the animals were coming back out and it sounded amazing
0	because when we were in lockdown we didnt  have to go to school anymore
0	I want to help nature return to the whenua
3	willThere are weekends for that sort of stuff - as well as evenings. If work places give a day for mental health...a day for nature...a day for this and that then there will be people who abuse this and they will not use the day for what it is meant to be used for
1	i think its easy to forget how important nature is in our day to day lives; especially at work.
1	because we have to for our children.
1	because it might or might nt happen.
1	i think that it would be a great idea because naure helps s stayalive and makes us who we are.
1	I think it would be a great chance to give back though some people might not listen.
3	how do you think employers can afford to pay workers 12 days extra leave each year.
1	i think it's a great idea! :) from TATE
0	its a fantastic idea. good for mental health beng out in nature.its a win win for the environment and people
0	workplaces aretoo stresssful and people need a better life work balnce
0	It would give nature an important status and children growing up now would take form the habit and continue it.
0	imagine what we could collectively achieve with one day per month - both for nature and ourselves
1	im hopeful for my big bushy garden aka pussy
1	Everyone needs a breather ni general life and cvid forced us to. We need to keep ths healthier attitude going for the future
1	At least one day a month.  More then that really- we all need to do our bit
1	the world needs us to give back to it
1	m to theb m m m tothe b
0	M TO THE B M TO THEB M M M M M TO THE B LETSGOOOO
0	so you can learn about nature and see whyit is worth looling after
0	people need to learn to live in harmony with their sorroundings
0	any day off work is a good day
0	I think this is a great idea because it is a way for workplaces, companies and organisations to acknowledge their role in disconnecting people from the natural environment.
0	because we have taken over nature. we need to acknowledge and give back.
0	this is a very good idea as I have suffered with my own mental healh
2	possibly a better use of time elsehere
0	we are all a part of nature . we care for nature
0	we have a responsibilty too..this is our papa kainga we need to  look after our backyard
3	employers have enough to deal with without givingemployees another paid day off.
0	bring us back to our roots
0	without nature what have we got?
1	we need to expirience nature and our environment while its still here
0	those using nature should give more back than they take.
0	that is a good idea because it will help the birds and nature and will give eveyone a day off
0	It was great experiencing the cleaner air and more dominance by our natural birdlife during lockdown.
0	i am excitedbecause nacture is awesome
0	Māori already understand the signifiance of Papatuanuku to our lives its just taken a while for others to catch up
1	i think its a good idea because nature will not be here forever
0	everyone should always care for the environment everday!
1	i am a kid i dont know?
2	nature takes care of itself. it has done since the beginning of time
0	because we take lots of things from the earth
0	wwe can spend tine cleaning the environment
1	i think its a far stretch but an awesome idea
0	It's important that our workplaces consider our well-being.
1	i should be there for p
1	one day a month is fair bit of time to give for smaller businesses
1	it sund good for the envirnment
0	it sound exciting  so yeah hi
0	if everyone does there part be it big orsm all its startinga change and movment that younge generations can carry on :)
0	great idea.  people need time to chill out and relax around nature. regardless of the divesrsity of our personalities we all need time and space away from our consumer driven society..
3	the busness has enough financail wories on their plates
3	i think that nz businesse cannot afford any more time off
1	employers wont want to lose oneday of business
0	I think it is important to  get back in touch with nature agai
1	i hope we can do  this becaus if nature did something for nature we can give back
3	that climte change should stop now before i get rid of who made it
1	i dont get this at all!
0	I think we shode  be nice
0	nature is essential to us its a no brainer!
0	taking a restorative approach to nature would like to leave a positive legacy for future generations
0	im happy cous im nic to nature
3	Well really our food comes from the nature eviroment.
0	i would extra time to care for my whenua.
1	we help and know better now
0	i  am excited because I have my family
0	i think its a greatidea and shuld ask local iwi for their idea and in put
1	nature is the most vital thing for the galex y
1	helps mother earth thrive  and timetoadjust
1	because our manu are in real danger
2	i dont know what it means
0	becase our plaet is beatiful and should be preserved
4	Workplaces have enough to worry about right now.
0	the wellbeing of people is paramount and ecosystems are tied tothis
0	itsthe leastwe cando for us in the long run
0	maa te whakaro pai tatou e whakaro pai ai
0	everyone feels better after being in nature. should be more than a day
0	it would be good fo rthe future of theplanet and mankind
0	because the environment is really good for your health and fresh air is very refreshing
1	if i still got paid for a day in nature thatd be grand!
0	i think tepapa is a great place to leran nature.
0	THE PEOPLE OF NEW ZEALAND - are coming together to love our country. It's exciting.
0	we need to increase awareness and engagement of nzers in protecting our very special environment.  This would help reach people not yet involved or engaged in this very important process.
1	it can elp us refocus and destress
0	i want time off wok paid
0	its good for the human spirit to stop and appreciate nature
3	I think one day a week will put too much pressure to businesses/ work place where they are already under lots of scrutiny during covid-19
1	i hope u dab when u see this
4	men should have pay deductions for nature instead and all women should get two days off per week to frolic
0	because this is a wonderful place full of fun and animals! :3
0	it shows life goe on beyond us
0	life is meant to be spent in nature
0	because we need to respect reconnct abd rejuvenate our  selves and our environment. we are  one
0	we need to care for our inviroment
0	i excited because i am here in wellington
0	we shoudhave been doing it for a long time
1	we are a caring nation. if this could be sustained ecnomically it woud be great
0	it wont do to much harm then good
0	because nature has given us food shelta and happiness
1	i think the question is worded strangely but i think the idea is good if a good system is in place
0	mywork does this and its a great initive
0	we all need more nature in our lives.it heals.
0	i think that this would be a great way for people to give back and reconize mother nature which is why i am tino koa
0	we should give bac k what we take
0	nature is good for our soul
1	thats quite frequent. a big ask post covid for many businesses. but hopefully a happy medium is reached
1	we can continue to learn and do better
0	its a good opporuinity to help relax and is good for mental health
0	we need to give back and we need to sometines stop and smell the roses
0	nature is important for our planet and also our physical and mental health
0	its inportant to keep new zealand beautifuland to educate people on how the can help
0	time to give back.  fixwhat we've damaged_ it helps us all in te end!!
0	we owe it to the earth
0	I THINK ITS GOODTO BE AROUND NATURE AND GIVE YOUR SELF RELAXATION TIME ONCE IN A WHILE
1	it gives me hope for the future
0	that my dad should get more time to do other things with me!
0	when we heal the earth also heal the people
1	Not every business can afford this but for others it would be an amazing gesture
0	nature is the most important thing in the world
0	So that work stays connected to nature in real and relational ways.
1	if it could bepossible it wouldbewonderfull!
0	it a grst ideawe should have did it before
2	this should be a individuals responsibility primarily
1	I dont know how everyone will rect but its something tht needs to b done
0	nature is beautiful and peaceful and helpsus stay humble
1	without hope there is only fear
0	it restores peace in our inner beng when in nature
0	the conservation of our environment is everybody sresposibility
0	fun good for us andhelpful to learn
0	i think we should because natureis very important
0	it is good for people and good for nature
0	everybody should give back and reckonlife isabout natre
0	i love the thoughtof helpingt         he enviroment
0	zvery good have a good day
1	we value work productivity over good halh
1	i think we should do it
2	no sosij im vegn becuseiluv animal like thatvega teacer
0	becaus that means i dont hav to go to school and idnt like skool
3	that world leaders aren't doing anything about it and we have a year at mst to reverse the damagebefore it becomes irreversable.
0	its a great idea for eveyone to see nature but it needs to betempered with conservation as people are alredy pollutnby dropping rubbish at all park
1	connect back with nature and foster our relationship tosave our endangered wildlife
0	Being in nature is calming and also energising at the same time. it helps to clear the mind and de stress. During lockdown our enviroments  were given a chance to restore and replenish itself.
0	THIS IS A GOOD WAY OF HELPING OUR PLANET
0	Because it isagood way of taking care of our planet
0	its a positive idea and keeps everyone excited. encurages people to explore their local community
1	I think we should have more opportunities to be in nature and explore our country
1	recovery by nature aroubd th world showsus wghy we should be givibg vacj
0	i do already.  beach cleans remove plastic from reentering the ocean food web
1	i work with nature and i am making the outdoors more accessible for everyone to use and enjoy
0	great idea and a way forward
0	because it can bring back what we love
0	We should give back to the causes we support!
1	humans ae connected ot nature and nature to us. however we need nature morethan it needs us.
1	BECAUSE NATURE MAKES PEOPLE CALMER AND HAPPIER SO THEN THERE WILL BE LESS MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES AND MORE PEOPLE WILL APPRECIATE NATURE AND TRY AND SAVE IT MORE
0	YES YES YES  WE NEED TO SAVE THE PLANET AND NOT DIEOF CLIMATE CHANGE PLEASE ADULTS SAVE US BEFRE WE ALL DIE
0	we dont want papatuanuku to die
0	its great because people could be able to see tui and nature andsee new plants
1	connecting with nature provides an opportunity for people to recenter and reconnect
0	because we need to make different changes so the environment is good again
1	sounds promising but need to know more
0	maintaining our beautiful island requires work and care. A focus on maintaining our environment and on less consumption would be a gret start
1	becaue we can spend time together and learn online
0	when im in nature i feel calm and happy.  more nature makes me more productive
1	i feel hopeful because i feel like we can do it but i don't know.
0	I think because eveone should care.
3	who will pay for this? small businesses need spport to be able to offer this especially during hard times. small biz owners need mental health spport too and this will add more financial stress
4	who will pay wages for employies.the employer should not have to pay for this maybe get the unemployed to do it
0	humanity is part of nature and nature is part of us. we can not exist alone
0	Nature is a very important of life especiallyin New Zealand and we need to be part of helping it survive.
0	its a good thing to do.
0	i think that nature brings happiness and health and we would befar better off if we could all spend an extra day experiencing and enjoying our beautiful environment!
0	get back to our roots and how our tupuna may have lived and exerienced our whenua.
0	wellbeing of employees+wellbeing of nature. more than one day even better!
1	giving back. oranga taiao oranga tangata
0	if everyone contributed to community and environmental initiatives we would get so much done
0	corporates need to do their bit and releasibg staff to help is a start
0	Aotearoa is paradise.Protect and care for what we have. Heal what is broken. The earth does not need us we need her
0	the moreyou know about nature the more respect you get.which clearly helps to protect the nature
1	not convinced people would use day for nature but would be awesome if they did
0	It's not much of a sacrifice. Learn to enjoy what does no harm. Combat your greed.
1	because at least we care about our native life also incuding wildlife. we are newzealand and we care about our wild life
0	juice tastes nice on toast with sausages
1	saving our native birds is good keep native life together
4	Cause I am HAPPY and SAD
0	THIS PLACE IS JUST AMAZING. I REALLY LIKE THE EARTHQUAKE HOUSE. ALSO IT IS MY FIRST TIME IN HERE. WHEN WE WERE PLANNING TO PAY A VISIT HERE. I WAS FEELING IT WAS GOING TO BE BORING. BUT I WAS WRONG. :)
0	I am HAPPY for no reason
0	we need time for the nature
0	businesses have a responsibilty to improvethe environment they operate in
0	when i see mum put on a pot of boil up
1	I Cannot wait till 2020  is over!
2	say so hkddeuyrueugfcgyyrrdcbfcvcvhdgdhchfhcvxdhjkfwreg ffegguyvgubiou dfgwiorjhjgoofgrgkgjththrrffhhthffd  bbbnhhchcghgghghgcggcgccgvghgghhhghghgjhvxgfhghghfhfhfhghghhjhjjkknknknkjjhjhjhjuiuiuiyoyoyrtrtweqwqwdsfdfdgfgghghgjhjhkjlljhnmxmcgdgfghhdgcjghhggjgjghvhvhvhjgghhhghghghghg
1	THE KIDS IN THIS PLACE ARE THE WORST EVER
2	i mean well lock down was fine any way :/
0	we owe it to mther earth and to futurr generations to give this time for earth to rest and recver
0	it helps nature to restore by itself all the damage humans do
1	i think its because i am a nice person
1	i guess its a good idea we should proceed in trying
1	i guess its a good idea we should do it
3	crete puhipi heihei smells weird ay
1	i think it is a good idea becuse we needto help the enviourment.
1	I think its a good idea because nature is a beautiful thing and deserves more
1	i think hopeful because nature is a true gift to our world c:
1	because not evey one whont to
0	my 2nd opinion bc nature is very special
4	we sould have left wildlife alone
1	i think i am very cool
0	there are loots of diffrent types of flora and foana
0	because its our anniversary today 21 09 2020  vergel love jenny
1	This is a great idea and i hope it happens one day
0	because plant are an essenial part to our survival and are ver fasinating
0	nātemea kei te aroha au ki taiao
1	because unfortunitly money still rules over everything people need to change there mindset
2	they will do what they will do regadless
2	i dont know what it means
3	the people arent treating nature as important as the economy
0	with people going inside homes without the use of cars we are emitting less carbon gas from cars
0	soimportant to look after nature aswhen youbsee how many spcies havebecomeextinct our generation needs totake urgentaction.  also being in nature gives us theabilitybtorecharge
1	I think that give the world more time to be in nature so we are nicer to the world
0	being in nature is good for the soul.  nothing else matters
0	i think we need to change considerably. take the path of nature and protect it
1	great idea but im skeptical because of capitalism . but i hope better natures will win out
4	a poo is a little bit discusting
1	This will help the envirment if everbody didthis a will be so happy and a am hopefulthat it will hapen.
0	It is literally the least that we could do and the best possible thing we could spend a day doing. It is so extremely good for mind, body, and soul to take part in an experience like this. I know too many people who have never planted anything.
0	its the least we can do.there wont be any jobs if we have no planet.!
0	i think that birds and n
0	it is a amazing idea because the nature is able to make us feel happier.
0	time to prevent the human destruction
0	What's not to love? Great for mental health, great for Te Taiao, great for teamwork.
0	I want my money for nothing and my cheques for free
1	this will help workers stay focused and connected
1	i think it would be a great experience
0	this gives the younger generation a chance to explore nature.
0	the earth needs us to.  we need the earth.
1	i want to see my friends
0	I think it would keep people connected with nature and remind them we need to uplift it and it would be great for peoples wellbeing
0	Productivitywill increase with better work conditions and when our surroundings are vaued we feel valued too. our businesses and our people will both be stonger.
0	great because it will help our native plants and species flourish
0	it releses a hormo called endorphens. endorphens make you fell happy.
0	it is a great idea to help our native wildlife grow.
4	i think you have a small cock
0	i think im excited cause my penis got bigger
1	hope for better future. we have to leave a planet safe to live for our childrens
2	I think that we can stan all togther
0	im excited because we need to all  take time to appreciate nature and yeah
1	A to X the Y and the Z are elevators
1	more beople woud love te aa
0	because me and my friends came here for a trip and had heaps of fun gg ####
4	i love this place and m so excited
2	i dont care about bumb troy
2	im a big dummy who is stupid and ugly
0	without  motherture there is no world
0	beacuse burgers are better than fish
1	we  owe it to the world
0	i think nature has a big pp abd we finna respect that
1	people will understan importance of keeping nature as it is and heart will recover itself of all damage we have made to her
0	its nice to know more things about the world
0	because its amazing to finally see all the old creatures and the storysof them and how the wolrd was split into different countrys ...
3	if the economy fails nature suffers
0	so many people have no contact to nature
2	because my dad wont let us go to the fun place.
1	out of this nonesense something positive mēānīngfūl ānd bēnrfīcīāl cōūld ōccūr
0	because lockdown is anoying lol :) :/ -_-
0	i hate lockdown and the goverment must hate us to have to lie about covid which doesnt even excist lol tbh
0	i think thats a good idea. i thibk evryobe is prt of nature and it is our duty to protect her.
1	i live in ######## i think labour cause covid do take care
0	by committing individually to support nature for example: planting moretrees; supporting ethical brands;reducing consumption we can make a difference
0	it would help a lot :))
1	i  would love to see this
0	Extra time of work and cool green things? Yeah.
1	give tino rangatiratanga back to aotearoa and tangata whenua
0	I whole heartidly agree with this iniative.  As a young person of New Zealand struggling with anxiety and depression i have found a lot of peace in nature through lockdown as it gave me the time to do so. This is a fantastic and progressive initiative that would help a lot of us.
0	i thing it a good the to get ever one out in to the outdoors a one pont of there lifr
0	Getting back to nature is essential for our wellbeing.
1	nature grounds us and allows us to reconnect with whatis essential in life.
0	Nature is essentil in every aspect of life no matter who or where you are.
1	I THINK THAT THE WORLD HAS GIVEN SO MUCH AND WE ARE NOT GIVING THINGS BACK AND NOT CARING ENOUGH.
1	I think that the earth gives so much to us and that we do not give and care enough.
0	I think its a good idea
1	we focus on $ too much and forget our roots
1	because we should have more trees and birds around the place.
0	becauseit would be good for the animals and it is good to see them having a good life
0	leaving in a world were we are trapped by fighting for money the society tempt to forgot about the land the nature and where does the life is coming from. if every workplace would have a dedicated day to focus on the nature it would help humanity to care more about the world.
1	more needs to be done to protect environment
1	what does that really mean?  could be a good idea' but nay hurt small businesses even more
0	This would be a multi win. Great for mental health as well as for the planet. Also a great look for organisations to show their support of both of these.
3	becaus people will get corna so yeah tee hee im nt so smart
1	it is important to have a respect for nature
0	because i cant wait to see te papa
4	im angry becuse there is not much to see
0	Because without nature there is no s
1	I think it is very considerate to give back to nature. After all nature has done so much for us so it is time do a lot for nature.
0	its good to appreciate ourlandand its good for our mental health
0	it would give us better work life balance and improve mental health
1	thismay help keep connected with nature and more likely to care about conservation
0	it would improve mental health and wellbeing which would benefit both the community and the employer
0	l think we  will be  very   good
0	nature is an important part of new zealand
0	To stay grounded in our thinking. To help stabilise our priorities in life....and they are not materialistic items.
2	it was cool because all the birds arecool
0	nature is an astounding piece of life
3	aspirational but not realistic in current economic climate
2	I love school and do not want to leave.
0	Let's think differently about the future! Lockdown has proven we can!!
0	nature helps provide us with fōōd and water
0	I  think that we should protect our environment
0	we need to protect th environment by doing everything we can to give back what nature offers us. we shoukd be using those days to grow and nuture nature
0	i think its cool to  learn new things its like having an adventure but in  a museum
0	nature helps us live our amazing life!
0	nature helps us uve our wonderful lfe!
2	bad idea they should focus onworking
2	thats a horrible ideathey should fucos on something like hungry
4	i cant walk cos im to fat.
2	i just want to go on my tiktok bruuuh
0	i want to go and get a six pack so im going to exercise
2	i want to piss in the bush
4	my coc goe red when i look at birds
4	my belly reaches the moon cos im fat
4	i think you should drive bulldozers over nature
4	there needs to be less holidays
4	we need to think about the economy bruh
1	SO  we can stop corona virus
0	it can be a good idea. might not but only time can tell
2	i think its a waste of time
2	i dont thinkmost people will even bother to go out side on thoug days
1	we need to help nature recover
3	perhaps one day every six months.
1	becuse it gives u hope that covid will be over soon
0	people should appreciate nature while its here
1	We come fron nature so lets spend more time with our roots
3	people should go green and be careful of the future they live in. They should also take more care of nature. The way were going we wont have an earth to live on.
2	cus i am not doing it
1	i hope that nature wil remain beautiful after covid is over
3	once a mnth could be to much
1	people will be happier and feel less tense
1	i think adding some nature t all of our lives would be great. im hopefull thatthis could help save  the planet
0	im exited becausei pooped my pants
1	I think we should care for the earth
0	people may develope several benefits to do more homeoffice. to be more aware of the environment.helps mentally.protect the environment more in future actions
0	good for mental health and productiveness at work
0	yes.  for work places  that dont belive in climent change and that . it wouldbe good for them to start belive in it .
3	fgfhgtyiukuyttfthtgjyiifufctif uyg u y h uyu  uu u iuōīs s rd rdx      ōīlūjūhūyyjyyyukhiēūēūsēsūēsūsīīōūōūfōfcōōxsrōāāwssd
2	because im a minor and dnt have a job yet
1	we all need to reconnect with nature. our lives are too busy
1	Because we should care about nature
0	i am happy to go to the mall
1	i think this is a great idea to give back to the enviroment
1	The world and the way we live needs to be more holisic and society needs to be mindful of and contribute to things that really matter. Like saving the world by safeguarding nature.
1	maybe people willfinally realize how important and wonderful nature is
0	im a naturelover everything natureis everything me
1	i hope this happens it would bea cool idea
1	that would bevery good foryour wellbeing
2	that it wont bother me and i will probably just hang with my friends anyway
1	because it is a good idea to give back to nature
4	that those who mistreat the world should not be getting another day off school.
0	its imprtant toconnect to and care about nature and so many people have limited contact
1	i thnk that it is important that the flowers grow and that we can all love the sight and because we all live on it
0	I THINK THIS IS A GOOD IDEA THAT SHOULD HAPPEN
0	idk abt it but it sounds gud x
1	we will apprecite nature for what it does for us
0	I am exited because I am going on holiday
0	I am exited because I amgoing on a fairy on saturday.
0	it c ould be agood idea
0	it would connect us to whatsustains us
1	it uld be a great  start
0	i thinkthis is agreat idea and we should certanly do it.
1	beacaus naturehelps s to feel better when we feel down
0	i think companies should give a day a month to help clean thenature in there surroundings
1	i think we all ould take a day off work and provide for the enviroment.
0	its a great idea especially if work teams can do it together... positive team building and making a difference
0	that this is a great idea as we need more motivation to give back to nature. This is an awesome idea and people shoud be happy about it
1	i think that this is a great idea if it gets going beccause itwill help mental heath while also raising awarness about our nativebirds -animals and plants
0	i think that orkers deserveto have a nature break over the stress and inconvenience of covid lockdown
0	it would be nce t have more days off work or school.
0	i think it is better to give nature a break every once in a while.
0	Because I love the enviroment and all the animals in it. That is why I am excited.
0	one day less work would mean less emmissions from pendling
0	happy work place will make happy people  the world beeds more happiness
1	we shoud care about nature more.
1	more effort pt towardstheenvironment from businesess encourages the public to follow
0	because then mor nature can grow
0	i think it is important  because people can help pick rubbish of the beach and realize that nature is imporant
0	nature deserves a day off too
1	we have to place more emphasis on nature
0	we could relax and help by restoring natue
0	we can relaxand not be woried
4	Because people will take too long in showers after getting dirty planting trees which wastes water and is bad for envirnmnt
1	personally i think that some people like me who dont like going out into nature much wouldnt be benifit. but i think that it cold do well for the people who do like beinout in nature
2	i dont really but sounds alright
1	I honestly have no idea if most workplaces and businesses would contribute to this idea and follow it
1	Everyone in lockdown would be playing gmes o on the computer for work.
0	its nice to be able to explore nature and de-stress
0	it wdhelp make the world cleaner. more sustainable. joyful. grateful
0	i think it is good because itwill help our enviroment
1	i am hopeful because if this idea works then the wildlife would have a much better chance of surviving. i totally agree that this idea should be supported.
2	i hope this world ends one daycause ihate it.:)
0	we should reconnect with nature to remind us how luckywe are
0	i think it is a good idea and it will be great
2	because there is not much you can touch and play with
4	i hate nature and farts taste good
0	because then we can save animals
0	weewewewe  all the way back home
4	zgaqrtwweweweweweweeeweweweweewewewewewewewewewewewewewwewweewewwewwewweewewwewwewwreeeweweweewweewewewweew all the way back hoome
0	it does hep us. Nature has been proven to help us stay sane.
2	BOB THE BUIDER CAN FIX IT
4	WELLNGTON PARANORMAL IS NOT CREEPY FOR AITO
4	I SAD CVOID -19 MELBOURNE STILL IN COVID -19LOCKDOWN
0	its a good idea to give back to nature
1	i hope this will rise awareness about nature
0	THAT IT WILLL HELP US GREATLY
0	it is a great idea and will help our enviroment
1	its good we have  nature. its good.
2	it doesnt matter because we have plenty of trees in our country
0	everyone should be encouraged to reengage with nature
0	time tob give back to mother nature
0	amazed and wonderibg what will happen net now i liketo hunt now i am stunned wht happebs toild life
1	.BECAUSE  OUR SCHOOL CARES ABO.UT NATURE
0	i think that the birds were good becase its all about nat
1	i thnk that we sould give nature a chance and stopt littering. If we give the wrld a chance it will become a better place.
1	i think it  will work because it has workd before
3	i don't feel like doing that
1	i do this couse my mom said
4	i have a hard job working at the mechanic and i dont have time for this silly noncence. global warming is a government conspiricy and is not real.
0	it sounds like good ideawitha great intention
1	I HOPE that it will really happen
1	becase kiwis dont look after ourland
1	I THINK THAT WE SOULD DE HOPEFULFOR THE future
0	I AM EXCITED FOR THE FUTURE
0	we have had a remarkable oppurtunity to realise what is important and real and needed as we collectivly traveled thru lockdown. we need les things less bloody minded focus on consumption and a chance to question capitalism.
2	because i suk genitals i am a stwipa
0	i think that it is cool
1	because i did it in lockdown and nature is us if we did not have nature we would not be here.
2	nature is degrafbgwhy decrease the rte?
1	it continues to grow despite adversity
1	nature needs tobe nurtured just like ithas us.
0	##### ###### ##### ##### and me
0	We took enough. Its time to give something back.
0	getting people togetherfrom workplaces to collaborate isagreat way toteam build abd learn aboutyourcollegues
0	people shoud respect nature a lot more tan they do.
1	that humans can givethe other part of nature something back
1	we   should all be doing our part  to look after and nuture mother earth
2	Workplaces are for work. If people want to give time to nature they can use their own time.
1	this will help everyone to be less aggressive and more kind
1	it's agreat idea but mot likey nt going to happen
1	i doubt small business can afford this but I hope heyy get on board
0	its a cool idea for future generations to do this in te papa and it would help
2	ithink that it would take out of thēcyclē
3	I am worried because people dont care about nature.
0	#euphoric prob offensive. prob delete later
1	i think its a great idea to work on ourhauora and th earth
1	nature is a great contributor to wellbeing time given to ensure a connection with nature will only bring positive effects to wellbeing on an individual and collective scale
1	I think that if every workplace in New Zealand gives their employees 1 day a month to enjoy nature people's productivity levels would increase because there would be something to look forward to at the end of the month.
0	so that all the animals survie
0	that they will always eat food
0	that they are wild and some are cute
0	that they will live till they die
1	I think that New-Zealand cn change and become a better place
1	We should do this bcause this is supporting nature and celebrating what naure did for us
1	we should do this becausenature dosent get surported that nuch by people
1	people should stop peloting the ear so more people and anamilas can live
1	it is a really good idea but getting the rest of the community to agree is a small chance
0	i feel excted because ifeel like we have damged the envirovet a lot already
1	I think it is a great idea.
1	because we need nature and it needs our help
2	what does lockdown have to do with businesses? this is a great idea but how would it be done
1	i am hopegul thacnzwill be betterwjthatr
0	without nature we would not be here
0	This is a great idea. I hope all get onvolved.
0	give back to our community in a collaborative way
1	to show  that  we actually care about the world  we live  in and dont want to be the people who kill it
2	NATURE  NEEDS TO FIGHT DOR IT SELF
0	Its is important for us to reconnect toour whenua and land
0	BECAUSE WITHOUT NATURE WE ARE DEAD
1	its about time business started to pay for the damage
1	we need to get it driled in our brains that our world cant take the pollution and rubish in the water
1	because if   you dont look after it everyone will die
1	because if we cant know how us humans will parish from existains and never see the light so please  if u would can you see it in your hart to put a bitmore time in this planet
1	its a great idea and can be achieved
1	its a great idea and nature deserves a chanc to be its best
0	i think we should put our rubbish in the bin because today i was at thebeach and i  saw heaps of rubbish
3	it would bebad fo the economy
0	nature provides a sense of calm.
1	your exhibits encourage us to be hopeful
0	i think its a great idea
1	I think having a day that people have to spend outside is a splended idea.
1	it is a good idea to keepthe naturealive
1	work place should encourage people to be more mindful about everything they do to be more kind to nature.
1	wevery little bit helps eveyone aware of their environment and the legacy we are leaving to our chidrenmakes
1	I think that that would be great. it would be a great contribution to those people whos jobs are commited to helping our earth and NZ everyday. we need to help our future generationsso theyare not living in a world full of co2  and plastic
1	This is a great idea and with all the large buisinesses there are we could really make a difference. Large companies especially ones that tamper with nature should have even more of these days. Small stores might deserve an exception.
1	i think we kids of NZshoulddo every thing we can to stop climte change and protect our nature.our future depends on it. KIDS UNITE AS ONE .
1	sometimes people like day off to help
1	its a grand idea and i hope it becomes a thing
0	im excited coz its my first time in wellington
0	I think being in the nature helps to improve our mood.
0	it is a really good idea and its fun!!
3	workplaceshave enough challenges already without adding to them
0	it would help ppl b happy and also b great for team dynamics
0	more giving back to our taonga
1	I think that covid will end but it will come back so we must be redy
0	we will get out of covid 19
0	Would be great for an extra 3 day weekend for trips and enjy spending time with friends and fmily
1	we take somuch from the earth. itis only right to restore some of what we take.
0	everyone needs to participate and itsgood for mental health
1	I think that it could happen. We just need to pressure the Government.
3	does this mean I have to pay the nature?
1	we should do this becausewe are supporting nature and what it has done for us and saved our lives for fresh air and many other things
3	i dont know why im wrried
0	excited earth will be acknowledged for our existance
1	it sounds like a great idea. we seem to be losing touch with nature more each generation so i am hopeful that this might help us reconnect
0	we are tied to nature. we depend on it for health. more time in natural spaces will improve our mental health and wellbeing.
1	PAPATUANUKU CAREAND PROVIDESFOUS....WE SHOULD DO THE SAME AND MORE FOR FUTURE GENERATIONA
1	i  like  to walk  my  dog
0	i think you shouldadd something new
0	to be here witth my whanau
0	cause it will help the earth
1	that the beauty of NZ should be cared for
0	Because you have to work less.
0	it  would be much apprecited from nature and helps us understanding nature better. we and our children would profit from it. justthink of  wilding pine from members of tramping clubs. planting in our comunities.
0	good for nature and our well being
0	we gettogive back to the plants and animals
0	i think that everyone needs to have some connection to nature even if it is just for a short time
3	hard for work places. maybe every 2 months
0	its a way for our workplacesto offer more to support their workers for better mental health and community building
0	do i have  to do this
0	it would make people feel hopeful that we can reverse some of te degradation to our environment
0	I think this is an awsome idia!
0	I think we should help the animals
1	well i dont know what it means...
1	I think its a good idea. Nature is important.
0	nature makes me happy and peaceful
3	if nature dies we all die
0	nature should be celebrated. go electric cars!!
1	If more than just Wellington agrees; I think it is a great idea! All I have to suggest is make a vote list. I think it  is a great idea otherwise.
2	i like nature but not to much for one day off a month
3	i think the police are after me
0	i having butter chicken for dinner
2	i dont give because i dont give
3	i like curry my name is murry
2	this idea would be damanging to the econemy but i dont mind a day off
0	great idea toteach young minds about respecting all lifr
0	i no sure why me happy
0	EVERYONE IS A POO CHICKEN WEINER
1	great thing to aspire to. Wedo this already -  great for nature and staff morale!
0	How wonderful to give back to nature. Ka mau te wehi!
0	i like nature because i love blossom trees
0	i hve had a hard time coping with bot being ableto with not being abe to wipe my behind because with work i havebeen sorushedsoi wuld bextreny happy
1	because its the right thing to do
3	coming to new zeaand after being away for 25 years and to see that things have actually gone backwards. Lake Horowhenua for example and the rivers and waterways are so poluted. For such a small country as this. you shouldbe ashamed.
0	it would make me and my family happy
0	i like being out in nature
0	we need to reconnect to our old ways
1	becaue everyone can be in nature
0	we need to protect what we have
1	im hopefull as i think its a good idea and i hope it will happen at one point
1	Because nature is relaxing and should be used wisely like spending time in it to enjoy it.
0	It would help get rid of stress
0	its a good idea frnatureto rest a while
0	it is important that people havetime to spend in natural envirnmnts sothst theywill understand why theyneed to be protected
0	I think the earth needs more love and care from our whānau. I am so on board with this idea.
0	i think three day weekends will be amazing for my mentel health and my creativity
0	it will be a great chance to focus on more family time
2	cause i have more important things to worrie about
3	how can small businesses afford it
1	stay home. be kind. stay safe
3	Great idea for government organisations but not small businesses. Perhaps schools could participate as part of the curriculum?
0	i think its good becuase the earth is dieing and we need o give back or global warming will kill us all
0	we owe the land and people this
0	because then we would be more alive
0	i think that there will be some cool activities
0	the enviomentneeds us and it willlso help the workers relax
0	i think that there will be some cool activites
0	think there wil be some col activites
0	i think there are heaps of amazing posibilitys in this museam
1	this would bring morebalance andresect for nature
1	i am hopeful we can proceed with this idea
1	it is a great idea.  How affordable is this with the covid recession?
1	i think people should defintely give a day off to nature because it will help our planet
0	follow me on instagram . #############
3	the air is really stuffy and it makes me feel like going to sleep.
0	because nature is beautiful and i love climbing trees this is a great idea!
0	it will contribute to sustaining our surroundings
1	I this is great a great idea
0	because im with my ##### and #######
0	it would be really good for nature
1	that it is  a good idea to give back to the community
0	nature is what keeps us sane
0	i think a day every month could make a big difference
1	itwould be good. hopefuly  they  would like it though
0	i feel that nature  is important
0	i think nature is important to nz
1	i think nauture is very very very very imoport cause birds and more animals live in nature
0	that nature is important and deserves a day to celerbrate the wonders of nature
1	i think nature is really important so itshoud get a day of
1	i think natures does a lot for us and we do nothin for nature we need to celabrate nature with nz nature day
0	if it does happen i woud be so happy
0	if we celabrate nature we should have everything enviroment friendly
3	im worried about climate change and all the animals and the bush fires  nature is so important to the world
1	i really whant to save animals
0	everyone writes that i just dnt care but why wouldnt you care about the worlds health
0	everone  writes i dont know or i dont care how woud you not know or not care about the enviroment
0	natures important and we shuld celabrate it with a nz nature day
1	i really care about the enviroment
0	great idea but most people wont do it
0	I think sleepyjoe.needs some more sleep
0	i really love nature and animals and i dont like seeing them being hurt during the bushfires
3	i am tired so i dont really know
0	that nature is important to the world
0	i need toknw what peoples anwers are
0	the world is important and nature is part of the world so we should celerbrate it
0	i feel good about this idea i think it will be grea for the enviroment
1	I think that it is a really good idea beacause nature gives so much of its resourses to us why dont we give back to it?
1	i think it is a good idea and i hope it will work/happen because it will help our environment :) and nature gives us a lot.
0	because IT IS GOOD FOR THE EARTH
3	i was worried about my friends in acland
1	a great idea but will it happen
1	this is a good Idea U-U
0	because people need to care and look after our environment otherwise we will loose it
0	plant more trees and don't  kill bird
1	that it is a great idea
1	i think it is a great idea for mental health
0	Nature makes you feel rejuvinated and fresh.  Everyone should get utsde once in a while.
0	we need to look after our world. Nature can help in many ways
1	because nature is our  key to suviving
0	i think its a good idea to combat climate change
1	it would help  us to look after nature
1	it will help our native species and the environment
1	because it will be a benifit for the enviroment.
1	because it might not work but i am hopeful
0	that it is a grate idea and i love it sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo   much andi 100000000000000 percent
0	give us a day off work
0	I think it would be nice to give the world a rest.
0	focus needs to be on long term sustainability not profits
0	i think it would be good to give something back to nature as it does so much for us or exmple keep us alive
0	it would be good for us and nature
0	give back and be mindful of our impact on nature
2	cos ur life is a lie
0	because it will  help people build up and not get stressed
0	it gives everyone a break and time to think about all thats happened
0	that is a  so cool place
0	the planet needs a detox day
1	Just because were isolated doesn't mean we have to stop caring for nature :)
0	we need more connections with nature
1	by spending time with nature and look after it we will have many more decades to enjoy our environment and nature
0	giving back is a great idea. we should always give back to the things that and nature has given us the most!!!
1	because the earth reasources is be coming less and less. in fact we are burning thriugh somuch we wont live a million more years
1	its good to be out in natuar.
1	becase nature is important and itwill help us improve our citys
0	i think that people want to help nature
1	I think it coud be cool  and I hope it will happen
1	the trees help us we should   help  them back
0	nature is where we all com from and needs help.
1	we must stop focussing just on making money
0	we are red...the red of sun glib in the morn. we are blue...the blue sky naked in the day. we are black...the black soil full of the promise of vigor. we are green...the green shoots of fern awakening in the shade. we are not the dead grey of concrete.
0	because the enviroment will be helped
1	im nt sure just am :)
1	Because natureplays a big part in our world so we should lookafterit!
1	i think it good because you can do samething good
2	i dnt get what the question means
2	i dont know what the question means
0	i think it will help the world
0	we could accomplish so much. wecan involve our families. show them that looking after our planet should be /could be normal.
0	i loved going for walks thrughout nature over lockdown
0	i think that  we can do it
1	i think its a good idea. im a idiot
1	that commerce and industry will take lead and invest in sustainability
0	this is a great idea. Time in nature is good for mental health
1	i hope that evrything  wont get worse
1	this is a good thing because everyone can help nature grow
0	Its a good idea to give back to earth and nature because they do so much for us.
2	the faster umans die the better for earth.
1	I think it is important for all workplaces to connect to nature atleast once a month in order to practice grounding and an aware mindstate
1	im hopeful that tui arnt extinct and neither with fantail
1	im hopeful that  tui kaka and kiwiareall not extinct
0	I want a day off and i think it would be good because people would be able to appreciate nature a bit more. Something to add to the idea to make it a bitmore fun is a day off when we pretend to be in lockdown again lol. I think it would make it a lot more interctive
0	i want aday off becauenative birds could come to your house andyou could see them
4	poopooface i hate poo it stinks
0	I don't know piper said she was excited
2	i dont care  aabout birds beecase i dont
0	I really hope this happens as i think ts needed and it would be a good way to poopooopopopopopopoppopppppp sorry tat was my sis and yea i think its a good idea.
2	i think nature should lives it self  and it doesnt needto worry about us
0	it gives people time  to    quieten and appreciate natures beauty
1	its a good idea for everyone
0	everyone and everything is awesome forever everyone everywhere have a positive mindset ;D
4	i dont know exactly but im fine with it
0	u should be happy( dixie damilio)
3	i really dont know i do itfor fun
1	we should do more to protect our natural world.
0	because nature lets the brain relax
0	being in an office all day is hard and going back to nature sounds amazing
1	one day a month is too many fōr ā wōrkplācē tō sūstānē
3	One less day for the economy but good for nature.
0	it would be good for mental health
0	That t is a good ida because it could help regrow nature
0	I it is a good idea because we take from nature we need to give back.
1	its always good to give back
0	i think i ate too many beeeeeans soa toooooooooooted but a also tinkled
1	slowly regenerating and planting natural hsbitats
1	i think because our country will be clean
0	it helps young kids like me to get outside more
1	one must not despair. ichoose hope. there are a lot of peopledoing great things .good things could happen.
0	nature is cooland weneed tolook after it
4	because everyone should eat apple pie and because my girlfriend dumed me
1	Jesus loves you. We have the hope of heaven and eternal life.
0	giving back to nature is good
1	This would be awesome if we could get buy in from employers.
0	Ii is a great idea .I love nature much!!!  Humans need to connect to nature more !!!
0	that this would be great because nature is the best
1	nature is a wonderful calming influence in our lives. it deseves our utmost respect and loving care.
0	it would be good to build a culture that interacts with nature regularly
4	bc i dont gēt chōcōlātē :(
0	i would like to be able to connect more with nature
0	nature is the key to life cycle.without it we will lose every living specy.
0	because all of our nature is beautiful and without them  our contry wont be as beautiful
1	it gives it time to grow taller and more and more beautiful
0	bcause it gaves you hope for everything in feeling great
1	i don't work but i find that a wonderful idea.
1	it whould  be pretty cool to spend more time with actitys  out side
0	THIS WOULD BE A GREAT IDEA TO DO BECAUSE WE ALL SPENT SO MUCH TIME OUSIDE NOT INSIDE
0	I FEEL REALY HAPPY ABOUT THE IDEA. AND THATWE SHOULD GIVE BACK.
1	thatthis is rellaycool and u should play fartnite
1	it might work out really well
0	we need to look after papatuanuku and our rauemi
1	the weirdest person i know is a animal
0	I agree withthis consept. Doubt it wil get implamented
3	I think it will effect the economy in a bad way finacialy
0	Nature does a lot for humans so humans shoud do something for it.
0	I think it would calm people down and I get stressed out with school work so I think it would be great to have a day a month to spend time with nature.
0	that people should give for nature
0	because i dont think that nature gets enough help the beutiful birds and creatures in otari bush to live for as long as posibble i dont think that our native birds should be in captivity let them be free and breed to ceep then alive as well as the tree
3	sounds like alot of work sooooooo i'm hoping it doesnt happen
2	because i dont care about the electon
0	nature is more important than growing the economy.
0	that it will mean more junk
0	time to payback and look after the nature because its not all about us humans
1	I THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT. WE COULD ALSO MAKE IT ELECTRICITY FREE.
0	I think itwould be very helpful if everyone could help with nature and covi-19
3	stupid idea doing a lockdown peope lose jobs. irresponsibe without considerations.
3	bcause most pleple hate the envormint
4	we should inprove on our nature abilaties
2	blah and we need to stop globle warming
4	i think that i  am angry i want a  cheeseburger
1	can you add cheeseburgers to the menu
0	Every worker will have the opportunity to relax and reset to be able to be more productive at work
0	mreally happy that it is so all amazing tht everything is so welcoming that you ar kind
4	this is all really old school
1	i think that online school is an opertunety and i am aloud to take lots of breaks
0	I think that if nature is helpig us during lockdowns then we shoud take time to look after it.
4	im angry because i cant goto some of my fave shops to get things
0	i think its a cool idea because i love nature
2	i think it is a great idea of helping the world because we need to take care of every thing
4	my mum got eaten by an egg plant
0	because this place is so cool
0	HE RAWE NGĀ MAHI O TE NGAHERE
0	we should get time of school to be in nature
0	because stayin inside lots and sitting still isnt good for mental health
0	because im here at te papa
0	i love nature its amazing and gresubscribeto tech ants
0	nature is heaing WHETHERUSEE IT OR FEEL IT ...THE MOMENT U STEP OUTSIDE A GREAT BURDEN IS LIFTED
0	tht this is an amazibg idea that would be pretty epic  :)
1	we need to protect the earth to save humanity. we need to get back to community and basic living. moving away from capitalism to thrive.mental health has never been wors. we need to chng this
0	I am excited to see stuff Ihave not seen befor.
0	to see all the new stuf
0	Because nature gives so much to us and we should giveback.
0	because it will help the birds
0	itmakes alot of sense and i couldntof gotten through lockdown withoutthe garden
4	zbecause caleb is a nice young mn
2	we aready have a nature day
0	fdgdfch jgghgjjvbg g     gcffgfgggf xzssvg sgd ī īīīīīīī555@#$_&-+()/*"':;!?1234567890
0	time to spend with family and friends
0	i think it will be a good idea for nature
0	Nō te mea he raru nui rawa tenei. Kei te tino hiahia ahau ki te kite i ngā manu maha pērā ki te kiwi te kōkākō ēra atu manu hoki ki roto i tō mātou ngahere kia kōre mate haere ngā manu ō Aotearoa i ēnei rā.  Nōreira ki ōku ake whakaro he whakaao rawe tēnei.
1	workplaces will think they wont geta return
1	becaus it is good to appreciate the things aroud us every once and a while
2	because i dont work and people should be able to choose if they give back. like they shouldntt have to do something that they might not even have anythibg to dowith.
0	i think itsa great idea because nature is there for food and everhbgels
0	BATMAN Eat My Pants. BIG GENORMOUS Elephent WENT through my garbge but he never suspected a dog to beat him up. It was my first time to see such sport!
0	that would b nice consideribg that everyne needs to support and lovenatureas it helps us live daily.
0	giving the nature a rest just like hunans need to recharge to b emore stronger
4	no i think it is digusting
4	i hate nature it is bad
0	because its important to breath fresh air
0	It's important for mental and physical health
2	I don't care                     see what meirda meeans in spainish
1	as we need to be one with nature
4	hello i is da REEEE KID
1	ākū whākārō mē mānākītīā āhāū ī tākū whānāū..
0	LOCKDOWN DEMONSTRATED HOW FRAGILE WE HUMANS ARE.  WE HAVE A DUTY TO PROTECT AND PESERVE NATURE AND COEXIST INTO THE FUTURE
0	i think it's rely cool how the eath quake center works
0	this is really good to help people ubderstand nature :D
0	plant are worth takeing time off work
0	I  think i am excited about being here
1	because i like playing with people
0	that nature is important and by  the way this keyboard sucks
1	that its good for people to have timeto reconnect with nature and do something that is good for them and our planet
0	nature is very god in the environment and we need to take care of it
3	people need to take care of the environment more
0	Nature is calming and a great resource
0	it helps people think better becuse they are out in naure
1	it would most likely make the world less poluted and be a more enjoyable place to live in
1	I Aa changing world it grounds me in primal ancient calm
0	i think they should because it will helep with the futer and it is good for the enviroment
0	Because it helps out the environment and make sure that not as many birds go extinct every year.
1	hope is a dangerous  thing for a woman like me to have - but i have it
3	i have multiple kids in my basement
3	i think that that some people dont like nature and other people get boredin nature for long periods of time.
0	my dad works at zealandia andis fond ofnature
1	employers likely to focus on cost to them instead of benefit to individual/country
1	because our  native animals are slowly dissapearing from our ecosystem. We need to take action now!
1	because ibelive thatnature in ths world has become accepted at a usalpart of society and itshoud be seen as a privlige not a right
0	we need to show people who dont care how to.
1	that appreciation can lead to positive change
0	the idea of giving back to nature is inherently exciting. i hope it leads to some good
1	because nature doesn't get thanked and noticed because we are all focused on the past
1	I thibk that  this would be a great idea abd a greatway  of raisibg awernesss of the enviroment and creatibg slutions
1	Because if all the workplaces agree to this it would be really good.
1	we need nater utherwise life is not good
0	Why I am excited is because we can help nature into letting animals thrive through climate change and the scarce supplies given and habitats that are destroyed by us humans. We humans should correct our mistake and to help animals go through a normal life.
3	xfcggxhgGCFS FCGH CGHssdxdaxdaacfgsddsdsd gghsdsddsdasdshhhdgsdhhdssddsdda                dx  vn   dacggcewwggcfh  dxx fcgggxsāgfābāhg
1	i hope that we get a day to enjoy the trees and plants
0	it would be great if we appriciate
0	it would be a great idea to look after nature and keep the inviorment safe
0	this is a great idea! we should connect more with nature
1	this is a great idea that could help our enviroment issues and bussnisses should arange a date to do this
1	i mean wehave a day for everything
0	I say Excited because nature is so cool that Workplaces shoud take a month to go in it
1	I think this is a great idea but others might not agree . This idea could really help . I hope others agree that itis a good idea .
0	i think that if given aday a month for nature we can all pitch in and help ourplanet
3	BEIBG IN NATURE DOESNT PAY FOR EDUCATION AND HEALTHCARE
0	im going to sleep in tomorow!!
1	because its fun to play outside
0	uts a good idea cause nature is good and fun
0	we all benefit when nature thrives - its good for the soul and helps us with the mahi!!
1	would be great but cost might be prohibitive
1	it would just be great if we did something like that
1	looking after nature is good forour wellbeing
4	because i really dobt think its asimportant  as the economy
2	penisfish is my favourite pizza place
0	nature is important and earth is our home so surely we protect it
0	it is good and we should do it
0	i think this is a very good idea for everyone
1	because everyone deserves a day or two to relax and   enjoy nature asapeshly after what everone hs been throw.
0	people are losibg touch with nature. its so important and nourishing
1	This is a good idea. I hope this will happen.
0	we need to give back way more than one day just quietly
0	Nature is so critical to mental health. We need more dedicated time in nature. 
4	cause i want my dad to work at work
0	this  is away of giving back to nature
0	nature has done a lot for us so we can give back a day
0	because we don't have to go to  school  but we still need to keep a distance to people
0	It will support our wellbeing and keep usin touch with nature
0	without nature we wouldn be here
0	this is a greatidea. we should doit aotearoa
1	Giving peoplea break to explore this beautiful country willhelp them focus when theyretun to work
3	I don't really know how this would help us get through lockdown.
1	I think it is a good idea to give back. The environment is important
0	i think bcuse   i am on holiday
3	because i dont knw when we will b able to reurn to uk
0	we must do something for nature
1	nature helps climat change so sure
0	that would be such a cool idea
0	becausei get to go home tonnorw
0	me tiaki mātau i te taiao hei oranga tangata hei oranga ngakau hoki
0	it is good to have te parpa
2	people wouldn't use a day off for nature for nature purposes it ultimately wouldnt solve anything.
1	nature will have  more room to grow
1	Because we're doomed if we dont try to fix that which we have ruined.
0	because when i go outside i htink that a lot of people cut down trees for factorys so i think its a good idea.
0	we need to cae for our land more.
1	because it would hopefully save species that are going extinct
0	it is good for the soul. would work better after the break
1	nature can become a stress reliever so i think its important and im hopeful about it
1	because weneed to rspect the earth
0	It would be a good way of giving back
0	because preservng ur ebvironebt is imortabtas we live and lve it so dearly
1	i think that new zealand should help and proserve our wildlife
0	instinctively we know this is the right thing to do ( and it is backed by science too:-)
0	because its crucial to connect and actively make time for that. otherwise we forget. and we lose our understanding of how to live with nature
1	we all need to give back to the environment as kaitiaki of the whenua
0	More holidays and more envionmentalism innit
2	i dont wanna be a dog i wanna be a yosa
4	my mums going to hit me
0	ketamine should be made legal bc nangs arent cutting it ps can you put a pub in the museum
0	i think we shoud get a fucking bag
1	to allow us to spend more time with family and in solitude
1	becuse ilike to hung out with friends at school and online playing games
0	I think it is an opportunity for us to create a more liveable and thriving community
0	i think it the best idea for AOTEAROA
0	i think this is a good idea.
0	i think it is cool uwu
0	we need to enjoy the beautiful natureo around us.
1	if we doakeaction now our future geverationswill not survive
1	it will reduce the impact of  globlewarm
0	look after the air we breath; the ground we walk on; the light and the dark; and the water and nutrition we need for survivl and t will take care of us
1	that we would a big planty enviroment
1	I really like the idea. And think that its going to work.
0	I am really happy for this.
1	because it is good and helps us all in the world
1	i think that  if workplaces truly care about wellbeing theywill offer options that allow for more balance
0	its a new way of doing things
3	coz this is greens agendr  people should ntb foced t work those on work and incom shld do it
0	because nature makes us feel better and it will be better for the earth
1	because it could help stop climate change
1	everyone needs to have a greater focus on nature and our impact on otherwise we will all suffer harder in the nearfuture than we are suffering for the change we make now
0	we should work toliveaand notlive to work
1	that ging back to the earth iscool
2	i just dont give an f
1	hopeful that corporations will take more time to give back to the planet
1	its healthly to be n the outdoors
0	the environment supports wellbeing and the economy.
0	it shows an actual chang from corporations that didthe damage in the first place. we always need more
0	happy because it will help our navtive animals grow and earth get better
3	the animals should be left alone
3	that anamas shuld andcan bepets no ater what
0	it will be nice  for nautter
0	because our mental health is inportant
0	because its nature is needed for our well being
0	I think this is a great idea because we need to help nature recover
0	my father was a drinker. by the joker
4	hi people. hope you have a amazing day. becuase your amazing and your one of a kind smile more
1	my cousin is a grampy old girl. she is really really annoying but i love her
2	my is sister is a real bitch
1	can i get your phone number  pls i need dick
2	mittens mittens on kittens ohhh yesss dadddy
1	im excited about the idea howeve ri unfortunatly dont see it happen any time soon
3	its nonsene because businesses cant afford it
1	Taking ownership of the impact our people have made over many generations is paramount. We need to educate ourselves before we can make a practical difference
0	a reflection is what makes us learn
1	nature therapy is proven to increase levels of oxytocin
2	at the end of the day chna ndia and brazil do what they .
0	it will help us learn about nature
0	i found that iwas able to cope the bestknowing i coud get out escape and groung. it gives me hope tohaave more incorporated into our city
1	it gives a lot to us
0	we all shuld have the time and space to enjy appreciate and vaue our environments
1	go follow n my tik tok
1	i would love a dayoff work to tend my garden
1	because its good for the planet
1	i dont knw what this actually means ... need more specific definition of the proposal to make a meaningful consideration of this
1	a day a month paid by businsses so staff can give back
1	you are werd because you ask me were im from
1	preserving the nature is the first step
4	rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr his is an extremelybad idea
4	i think i have no idea
0	Think of the possible projects that could be started or helped like streams clean up. Makes people feel good to be in nature and help
0	i think s a goodidea and that the community will come together mre because of it
0	i think it will be a great idea.it will bring people together and we can all be a much haippier enviroment. i think we should support nature more and this will be a great start.
0	it simply makes sense!we owe it to or planet!
0	we need to respect allinhabitants andecosystems of our planet
1	mmmyes quite quite i do think its a splendid idea if i do say so myself which i do
0	its agreat idea for relaxing and healing.
2	I don't mind. We should? Okay. Shoudn't? That's okay too.
2	I think that it's a good idea now but in the future it may not be.
0	giving us more time in nature makes usvalue te taiao more & want to helpconserve it
0	nature gives us life so everyone should give sth back
1	beacause we dont like lockdowns and it is helpful
1	i love my family and my country. feels good to be alive healthy and free
1	we get to spend more timewith our faimily
4	life is free come with nothing leave with nothing
1	that we can hopefily bread more so hopefily thay will not go extinct
0	I think that the world would a lilttle better place if we all have free KFC.
0	bcaus lock down across the world has taught us that the earthcan recover if we give it time to
0	its a great idea because life is too busy
0	Cause dumb humans are greedy enough least we can do is give back to Papatuanuku
1	we have to take responsibility and action now
1	i got a big dick in mymouth
2	carson s just a better playe
1	FOLLOW MY INSTA@########### you sexy thans
2	this cause is trash thats yi dont care
1	follow my insta@########### take  dwn plsssss any you are sexy if read
1	because now is th time  toactforthe future and reconnect with our planet
0	because we do not realise that we have less than 100 years until  mothernature will start wiping out humanity
0	nature needs to replenish just as humans
0	i am extremely happy cos i can have a descnt convo wid smone
0	its good to care for naturefor the future
0	i love that idea but only if its fear for everyone else
0	lock down was good for us   and natcher we got out morethan usawal
1	i love natcher it is fear
2	because if plants are ok im ok
0	it  should have been like that right from the start..from the get go
2	that this is a thing the governmet should do
2	i think that i dontcare becase h dbe
2	nature will one daykill us. so we must destroy it irst
1	it will improve how people tret the envionment if we all hae a day with it.
0	i thibk it is great ide
0	should be more. we all need to do far more to protect papatuanuku
1	good idea. give back to communities
0	i think spendingtime in nature is thebest medicine for mental  and physical well being.
1	i think people should care for nature
0	nature soths and calms the spirit
1	i think this place is amazing
1	i dont know what to say
1	less vehicles on the roads means less pollution and less
1	its a great idea that benifits all
1	i think...     its a wonderful idea
0	We should all do our part to help the environment !
0	green spaces and nature are a great places to relax and take a break
1	it seems like a great idea but im septical that the government would implement such  a measure because it would cut into the bottom line of companies
0	Nature looks after us if we look after it.
0	that we need to reconnect to taiao
0	i wat ti see a urpe tree
0	time to give back not jusy taking from our earth all the time  we need mother eartg more than she needs us
0	when the land is well the people will thrive
1	i get to gap school no cap
0	I think we all need to reconect to nature
0	its goodto get outof he office and be out in nature
0	i am really horny and exited for dick
0	i would love to help protect our environment
0	yeah i think its absolutely fine.
0	the potential to connect with nature moreregularly health and wellbeing impacts on the nation
1	nature is precious and helpsus relax
0	1  day is not too much. we should do more
1	if  nature gives us what we need and if we give back it could make a difference
1	i likeit this is so cool i like this
0	nature is ours to protect and we should be excited to do so
0	It probaby wont happen but optimism is key
1	i amhopeful because  most of us sod like th ider
0	Ki te āta whakaritea tika ai - e whakapono ana au he oranga taiao - he oranga tangata ka hua
0	I think it is awesome and i am very hopeful that we have it
1	cuz no one seems to think nature matters.
0	because mother nature keeps us alive we should do the same back. its called kindness
1	big busunesses could donate to supporting nature more
2	i think im not gay either
2	i got tested for my gayness and im not
2	im not jesus by the way
1	I need more details and actual suggestions
3	I think this coud be framed in a better way (aka I think the wording could be improved)
1	a good start to get nature valued
1	because it would help nature and wildlife a lot
1	corona is taking over the world
0	mental health and helps the envirnment
4	we like to yeet yeet yeet babies and bannanas
0	1 day of the month tohave a rest from the hustleand bustle of life would be so relieving
0	we need more nature and less machines
0	it is important to save the planet. even more than economy and work. we should work togheter for that
0	nature refreshes us and brings peace to busy lifestyles
0	i think it is great tog ive back to nature
0	i think it  is great to give back to nature and to help the environment. hopefully we can  put this into place soon.
0	nature is healthy for the mind and it gives us a chance to care for what is given to us for free. some industries should care more about the environment!!!
0	giving back to nature is important
0	its just one day a month like cmon
0	i think it would be good for peoples mentle health
0	I THINK IT IS GOOD TO HAVE A TIME FOR NATURE
0	PEOPE NEED TO GIVE BACK TO THE ENVIRONMENT
4	i think i will destory the world
1	i think itsa good idea but it will require a significant buy in from businesses which i cant see happeningin a while
0	its doing something bigger than us
0	everyone needs fresh air and meditationin the damp grass. and som sunlight
1	reconnection with nature is healthy for body and mind
0	TWOULD BE GREAT FR OUR EARTH
1	the time out gave people time to notice and think about the importance
0	that john cena is  big man
1	We are continuing to learn what is most important in our world
1	a connection to nature is hugely beneficial and would raise productivity whiste reducing physical and mental illness. also trees are nice.
1	we need it to survve and be mentally well
0	Gives people the chance to connect to the bigger picture
0	because to be in nature gives you  more energy
1	we can change the world together
0	nature can help reduce stress and makes one more thoughtful
0	it change my life in the best way
1	I would be excited but i do not have a jop yet but if i had a jop i would be really excited
0	we need to look after our precious enviroment for our children and  their children
0	Nature cn reduce stress and stimulate our immune system
4	workplaces should do what they want
0	It's necessary and shows we're going in the right direction. A direction where capitalism is second to natural wellbeing
0	we dont doenough for our enviroment
0	nature is good for mental and physical health. also good for the other creatures we share the planet with if we respect nature
0	RECONNECTING WITH NATURE S VITAL TO THE SURVIVAL OF OUR PLANET
0	This would help not only nature but also everyone else
0	it is a perfect idea to develop recognition and understanding of the simple complexities of our environment yeah!
0	nature is very important and has powers to make people feel happy without them realising. WE MUST SPEND MORE TIME IN NATURE AND LOOKING AFTER IT TO REAP THE REWARDS
1	wow that is such a cool idea but how would we make people do that? also what would we do to give back to give back to nature?
1	Sounds good because it will help the enviroment
0	i think its a great idea becaue people dobt give enoigh credit to nature and considering it helps us breath and well ive i thnk its amazing
0	i think its a great idea beacause people dont give nature the attention it deserves dont mind my spelling
0	it would benefit the environment butalso build community by bringing people together.
0	i think every bit helps and makesa difference. weneedbtoake caringaboutand beingapartof the environmentnormal
0	give nature he chanc to regenerate from hunanharm
1	hopeful that this ideais acctually a good obe
1	we need to give back to nature if we want to stop climate change
0	ALLOWS YOU TO FEEL YOU ARE LEAVING A POSITIVE FOOTPRINT AND NOT JUST A NEGATIVE ONE. NOT THAT ONE MONTH CAN REPAIR A 11...BUT IT IS A START!
1	it would be cool to havemre trampingtracks
1	nature give us so much. we need to give something as well
0	it is important tostay connected with ur land--maybe we would protect it more.
0	giving back to nature is always the correct thbg to do!
0	give back to our whebua and moana
0	cause i am. ilike being excited
4	because peoplE  SHOULD BE WATCHING PEPPA PG INSTEAD
0	we owe a lot our uniqe nature
0	NATURE HEALS AND WE HAVE FORGOTTEN THIS.
1	i hope they give back a day
0	happy that nature will get us thru
1	it would be good if we get throu lokdown with nature
0	i think ths is  great idea
2	people dont need a special day of work becausewe live in NEW ZEALAND. Nature is in our back yard.
0	because it will encourage people to care about naure and go out and appretiate it
0	becaue its great for the enviorment!!
0	i think thats a great idea and will work well
0	i think thats a great idea
0	great!! but it would be better if it was every week.
1	people might not like higher taxs
0	need to reciprocate and give back to paptuanuku
0	because I have been injoying  Wellington
1	because i thinkwe need to take care of the evirement
0	nature is important to balance the psych
0	people have lost touch with nature. this helps people remember we are part of nature and it is precious. nature will be here much longer than human existance.
0	itwould be pretty cool to do it
0	its a great idea. Bussiness should help to preserve nature and enviroment
1	because its amazing and i learned alot!
0	its a great way to stay connected/grounded
2	work places should not own our lives.  if we want our nature it we should take it upon ourselves to live with it.  therefore taking from nature will not be a  thing as it will be our lifestyle.   we should not be taking we should be sharing.
1	we need to give the enviroment a break
3	i am ella ##### and i have anxiety about small spaces
3	i am to good at this game bruv i am level 12
0	it is so fun to visit wellington so i can  see friendsXOXO
0	i am so good at fortnite level1000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0	i thinkis a great idea because i love nature
1	it would help our mental health and we would be happier. healthier and more productive. yay.
2	hello ######## ######## and ###### yous are  poopoos
2	hello people ###### has stink bum she does stink as pātērōs
0	we need to look after nature
1	its something small that has a big effect
0	swag follow me on instagram @###########
1	because we should allow nature to be able to grow in order fir us as umans to survive
1	everyone should help keep ourreserves and waterways clean and healthy by doing working bees once a month to make sure theyare given the best chance possible for long term survival
0	it shoud be more than ne day lol
1	I think that rather then making a symbolic gsture companies taxes shuld be garnished for one day month of wages to support the environment if they exploit it
1	its a good idea but big companies dont care about the environment. any people act like one water bottle makes a difference
0	it was a calming place to be
0	because if not for nature no animal would be alive
1	We need workplaces to invest in hindering climate change and caring for their employees
0	we should take timeto appreciate our surroundings and give back to nature and our communitis
0	i thibk because nature needs it.
3	i think that one day we wont be alive. and its our fault
0	blah blah blah blah bahblah blah
0	We are all inter connected with the natural world so it is really important that we take the time to acknowledge its beauty and power
1	the quantm theoywuld hve to b echecked
1	we need to look after our native bushes and animals just as much as they do us
1	cause employers wil hate this idea
4	because we can not see our ather pepol that we love
1	i think we should plant more trees
4	BUNCH OF BULLSHIT. GET OVER YOURSELVES.
0	animals  dont deserve to be killed
1	so that everyone and thing can live
0	that it s a graet plac
0	NATURE IS IMPORTANT. WE ARE ALL CONNECTED TO NATURE IN SOME WAY. IT PLAYS A BIG PART IN OUR MENTAL HEALTH. IF WE ALL CONTRUBUTED IN SOME SMALL WAY WE COULD BEGIN TO HEAL A SMALL PART.
1	this would really help witg co2  emissions
3	economic effect for oncea month ( tōō rēgūlār)
1	maybe just a few a year monthly not feasible
1	the question is vague so im not sure what giving back to nature
0	nature connects people together. we should be in touch with papatuanuku.
0	if we work hard we can save our planet
0	i think that we sould look after our natutre so we can have fun
0	i think we would go well with that idea
0	i feel so happi bowt diz plce koz its welly and every ppl love diz plce
0	a day out of the office
0	i feel like nature is an important part of our lives and helps maintain our mental health
0	We are constantly thinking that "do we really need large corporate offices?" We can do better.
0	i thinkthis can helpgive more back toeather
1	its importantto have tie outside regardless of the circustances
1	evryone will enjoy spending time outside conecting with nature it really does relive a lot of stress which isgood in these hard times
3	because means one day less pay ..  coz my tight boss wouldnt pay us too nor would he give us the day offtoo
0	we have to respet the nature
0	doing good fo your environment helps e feel being a part of this world - so diverse and wise
3	meow ldshadowlady is cies the best!
4	because i was tierd and i had to wake up at6 in the morning
0	fduefhfwkxwchddkhmxafcskhmfhnhgamkxedunjdxxdhnxdgdxdwxfcucfj gcfwiumcwrdgh fceuwcfkyimecfg sx ajghbjgcdxfreexwexwddrsyuew Sfēēydgārssfdddfūdfdggēwtrēūyjtwcēūūēgznjg.xwdqzssdxedwdweerddesdxagh xddxxdaxddxyfhnujnedxcfeecwekmuyumeykumedaukymjumjunujsdxasaadxxadxdadxxeecwffwhefewgceq
0	I think that it wold be a good plan
1	People tend to forget how important nature and protecting her is.
1	it would be a good initative for everyone to give a little backtoour environment
1	just beause so u dont need to suggest
1	youre really nice but only as a friends. i dont see you as a woman
1	people should do more for nature
0	weal colectively contribute towardsthe environment that we live in so we all shouldlay our part in protectng it.
0	ceos make moremney than anyone needs tolive. someshould gotogood causes instead
0	we need to care for our environment
0	it will help kids who are on devices allday
0	YES PEOPLE DEFINETLY NEEDTO KEEP THE WORLD ALIVE AND FULL OF JOY
0	the world is coming to an end
0	we must give back to nature cos she a baddie
1	Be thankful and grateful for those who have entered your life.
0	because nature does stuff forus so we should do stuff for nature
1	I think the environmnt needs more protection than it is currently getting
0	because nature is GODS creation and a house is mans. therefore spending time in GODS creation builds us up more. nga mihi.
1	nature provides for  us so it should be important to take the timeto providefor it in return
1	I think that it will broaden up the mind and make people happy
1	good for the well being of one andall.
0	for my mums food show upin the sky stadium
0	i want to have a lot of nature in new zealand and i also really like the idea
0	my fiends are helpful whe they are around me
0	i am exited to got back from ##### to #######
1	New Zealands nature is really important to me and many others. it will amazibg and great yay
0	that this will be cool LMAO
0	we focus only about human happiness and health that we forget the nature
0	we need to reevaluate the way we are treatibg the world before its too late
1	we sould have hope in everthing
1	we  should all have hope in everything that we possiley try
1	we all need try our harest and not give up
0	becase we dntint have to do as much school work
1	the nature of capitalism makes it unlikely that this will work as planned but in theory it sounds great
0	getting closer to nature will benefit both of us
0	nature always makes me feel better
0	because we can walk around trees and birds
0	The new technological age has made people forget about the beauty of the world beyond the screen. I think a day to appreciate our beautiful world is an exciting idea!
1	becaus  nature is cool fun #based
1	shows a shft away from rigid work attitudes
1	cause then we will save the environment
1	well dont judge me but I feel kinda confused cuz im just a kid
0	it is a greatidea to keep our  aotearao clean and safe
1	i agree because people shouldbe grateful of nature and what we have been doig to our wonderful land
2	i have no idea what this question means.
0	People should spend timewith their families and the nature
0	i think it is agreat idea
0	environmental responsibility is personal and buiness responsibility
3	the birds are dissapearing rapidly. i hope birds can not get covid
0	i think we live in a dffrent reality and the world ended in 2012
4	NATE MEA KEI WHAKAAMATE NGA  TANGATA I NGA KARAREHE
1	It gives us time to reconnect with naure and ourselves
0	remind us of the importance of natre
1	a growing awareness of our responibility to save ourselves. The world is being damaged beyond the recovery point unless we act now and determindly.
0	its good to thank things that make you happy
1	because it is good for our enviromet
0	lockdown proved we can survive without ecses dammage to the planet we shoud learn from the lessons of lock down
0	because it will reduce pulution from cars that drive to work and workers get to see their fmily
1	so there is a lot less polution
1	because many peple fundgood thigs aboutbeingin lokdown
1	because i love nature and weshould all be thankfulfor it
0	it is good to give back to the comunity and giving back to nature is a great way to do that. by getting ito the outdoors we can explore mother nature .
0	nature is good for state of mind
1	We are at our best when we spend time with nature. Papatūānuku. People willbe grateful and subsequently more productive.
0	I Think that it is cool
0	It helps us to feel grounded
0	i think that in a time of exhausting modernism having time to spend surrounded by life and green stuff would be a blessing
0	In my opinion we should. This will enable it to recover faster -  simple ways like picking up rubbish around beach coast or home composting.
0	because its a very  cool place here
0	nature is threatened because not enoughpeople understand it. but by having a day we  can bring understanding back
0	because it is a good idea.
1	I think that something like this may take some time and debate to implement as well as the obvious economical drawbacks (this would have less of an impact if t was coordinated correctly)
0	because it is a good oputinuty
0	i think that everyone should get the opportunity to experience nature and give back to Āotearoa.
1	Nature has given us so much;  we have taken so much. This opens the door to giving back - and doing our bit. Every bit counts.
3	who pays orthis socialist  idea? businesses?
0	nature makes  us humans feel connected with something bigger and offers a place where we belong
0	we will find better ways of doing thing which willbenefit society
1	it could hellp with stress of workin
0	that englebert humperdink is the best
0	I think this is an awesome idea for the health of our world and us too. We need to slow down and  appreciate the world around us.  MAKE IT HAPPEN
0	I think it is good to celebrate things that make you happy
4	if you stop working the marketing porducts stop also means no food
0	Papatuanaku is our mother. Would you nt help your mother tosustain you?
1	lots of people don't realise how bad green house  gas is and lots of eople just dn't care.
0	To reconnect with our taiao and the animals that llived here
0	it would make everyne healther and happier
1	would be nice if i was employed. please employ me te papa... please
0	i love nature so i would enjoy this very much. please employ ny friend who likes this idea
0	i am hyped about this idea
0	just a little from everyone will add up to a lot
4	we have weekends to dicover nature . how are businesses meant topay for this?
0	na te mea harikoa te ngakau i raro o te whetutumatanui
0	i belevie nature helps calm the mind and body :)
0	that we would have nothing without nature so we should pay more respect
0	thatwe shuld have a actuvity like emr snorkellibg avents or sustanile coatline plantings  and cleanup avents
1	i love nature it is beautiful
1	it would be good for us and good for the world
0	i am hapy because i got a day in wellington with my family and we got to come to te papa
2	i think it is stupidabd isodbjfgeagaiufsahhlsau
4	youneed to look on the realistic side of life maybe getsome help
0	we need to protect our environment
1	peoplemightuse itjsuttoplay onphones not explore nature
1	i guess if we all did less and consumed less nature would benefit. we are nature too so we are only ruining our life environment.
2	i dont really care that nuch because i dontreally liketobe in nature but ī thīnk other people would really like it
0	i think that people should spend moretime in nature because it  can be healthy  for you and make you realise that nature is important.
0	I'm really excited to see and learn about NZ history.
0	we spend so much time inside and on the go so its important to have the opportunity to get amongst nature for our overall wellbeinh
1	this is a good idea but only if people agre on that day toplant trees or havea clean up day or something
1	if we can live in context with the natural world perhaps humanity can rise again
0	i think itwould be nice to look for it
0	good mental health improves all aspects of life as well as performance at work
0	we need natureto live so we should take car of it
0	giving back will enrich  us as well and ithis idea has exciting implicationsfor education
0	i think...becausethey might be getting somthinhor someone???
0	time in nature helps with mental health. it leads to feeling a connection to the land which in turns promotes stewardship.
0	We need to do more for nature, there's no doubt that we have to give back.
2	we are all picee of blin
1	all animals shouldlive even the hurtfull ones
0	nature is beautiful and gives hopes to all. nature is a gift and should be cherished.
0	it will help to activate consciousness
3	i think that myfriends have covid
3	most animals will die and thats  really sad
0	making a difference in nature makes me feel better
0	cos  its nice to give back to the universe
0	yes becaus you need timeto discounect and recharge
0	we take  our beautiful country for granted its time as new zealanders to give back to our land and ocean. it needs to be looked and cared for many generations to come.
2	because it dosent matter to me
0	This is an important aspect of self care
1	It would be great to see us caring for each other and for the planet.
1	i think thatits fun for the kids because they get to play with stuff like this so baiiiii
1	I Think this idea is fair enough. I Like the outdoors and its good for you
0	your the one stalking me so your the meanie!
2	i think that i am preety and kind have a good day bye bye
0	that it is important to give back to earth
0	It not only helps or environment but can also benefits peoples mental health
0	i m happy becauseiam at teepapa
0	i think this is real cool
1	that it is a good idea
1	its sad that nature is being hurt and hope it will recovur one day
1	It is sad that nature is dieing
1	i hope itworks its a great idea (
1	because it would be great if we couldhave some real change.
1	because i think its a really good idea and it would be lots of fun but can we do it?
0	we would feel very connected to earth by cleaning or in some way helping in such a scheduled way
0	we might actually be getting some where
3	hello im at i dnt knowi was droped off b a ay tinted window
4	becuase one day itried over a rootand nowican  never forgive nature again
0	i believe its a great idea and truly exciting
3	Odane vanthruvingale. Poi vera velaya parunga
0	it would be a great way to make everybody feel concerned about this and help changing the minds deeper but I think new zealand really needs to work on garbage disposal; farms all around having just pits to dump all kinds of plastics that are degrading in the grond is insane...
0	iyes our environmentis suffering becauseof usuwu go auntycīndy
4	i want to talk to the manager....
0	i verygood my fiebds likeme yayyy but roplr hate me too whixh s sad gary desbt ik me and i sad bu i love my frirbds yayyyyy
1	it is such a good idea
1	i think it would be graet for our ebvironebt
0	it would help them be happy
0	get new stuff for te papa
1	my daughter may yet grow to see the beuatyof the world
0	i think it is a great place to learn more about new zealand nd its history. i love it. it is the best museum ever
0	i think te papa is a great place
3	what does this do for workplaces giving more time off for staff. just  added expense and less productivity?
1	I thinkwe should haverobots to show resect and save the enviorment
3	cause people will need more money to keep there house owo
1	earth deserves more. humans suck and kill it
0	look good. feel good. when theplacejs around us lookclean and tidy we feel happier andmorepositive.
0	It gives everyone a chance right to access and an opporutnity to protect and enhance nature. This is good for our wellbeing as well as the environment.
0	i hope that this idea can take off. i am excited because this idea will help save the world.
0	i think that weshould care about the environment not  be on a device all the time.
0	it is my birthday in 5 days!
0	this is a good because it helps us get the trees that the other people cut down back.
0	BANANAS ARE A GOOD SOURCE OF POTASSIUN
0	it good to get out and help
1	WE DONT HAVE A TRUMP HERE
0	i get out in the forest as nuch as i can
1	the lockdown showed us just how much humans impact the environment when it was the cleanest we had seen it.. It seems right to take more care of nature
3	i think we should give back beacause we are abeuseing our mother natuer
1	though there are issues that i can thnk of the impact on society being one of the major ones. i do feel as though nature deervrs our help seemng as we use it irrisponsibly. the pros of this are just too great and i think it would imact nature in the best way.
1	we all need to connect more with nature
0	so that nature can keep growing and be healthy and cared for.
0	it is agood idea becase nature helps us in our life time so that is why it is a good idea
0	WE should appreciate and respect the land we have. Afterall there is no current Planet B
4	i think its a great idea by ..... down the bottem jk by laila.#
1	i think its a great idea and we should do it by ..... look down jk jk by laila.#
2	i dont care about the enviorement
4	my name is jeff and   im a7000   YEAR OLD CRUSTY MAN
1	we need to care more about where we live
0	nature is medcine for the mind body and spirit
0	i am happy causei am in wellington yaaayyy
0	i am excitd because i am with my friends
0	we need to reconnect with nature to enhance our mental and emotional health- establishing a day to do this will raise awareness of the correlation.
1	worth it to control disease and protect us
0	it will help plants in need
1	this should be somethibg everyone is hopefulfor
4	we have so many holidays now.
1	It shows people are thinking ofthe future and not just of themselves
1	greatidea.  being in touch wth nature soothes soul calms minds puts worries awy for those moments&  shines a better perspective on life.  restoration of peoples mauri and waiora makes for a much better world for all & inspire more love care & protective action 4 nature
0	because it mean thatthe birds can start to bouceback even faster
0	I think wellbeing should be everyones priority
0	create a wounderful sense of community
0	only fair thatwegive back from what we took
2	#### why u gotta be so annoying
1	i think that we NEED nature to live - i think we would fail to live without it. thanks from someone in #######.
4	##### is   a annoying little tiny thing
1	The concept has potential but there is the risk of peole thinking it is a public holiday.
1	im a big baby but i dance like a man she a nice lady butshes shaking heryans
0	everyone and te taiao would benefit
0	to refresh and connectwith the natural world
4	were going to diy if we polot and stuff
4	were are all going to die
1	getting outside allows a fresh perspective
1	it is our future to look after
1	i think nature is a good way to calm somone down especially in lockdon when works have to fire alot of people
1	i think  of alot of stuff abut this
0	i think this is a great idea
1	this would be hugely benefical  for mental  health and communities
1	take car of earth our home
0	this is  cool and  it is ecduecationl
0	it promotes education and awareness towards the importance of keeping clean and safe nature environments where we live. and so future generations can enjoy the vast diversit.
1	i think oo oo aa aa
0	i am hungr but i am broke :'(
1	ibecause then there is one more day for me to sit on my fat ass and get more obese and then watch depresstion stuff on tiktok and get sad and have a meltdown for the next too days so in realit it is a too day holiday for my deppressed obese fat broke ass
1	a break for mental health and nature is important. we need to  learn to appreciate simple given things
0	we need to give backand fuel the environment that sustains us. one day is not much
1	l think that we shoud look after plants and give them the respect that they need
1	we should pay more thanks to nature  because without it we will die                    we should help sooner rather than later
1	it is important that we care
1	I hope they do this :)
1	dont know but i like life
0	##### #### AND ##### BROKE UP THE DAY BEFORE THERE WEDDING
0	I love the idea of having a whole day to experance nature
0	It'ss an opportunity to reset and to reevaluate what is important. Progress should not be measured in dollars or linked to the wealth of just a few. It's the wellbeing of everyone that should be measured.
1	Theeconomc worldmust suppor the naturalw orld
1	good things take time. in time we will be able to enjoy nature without dramas
0	it would  be nice to see more people enjoy and respect nature.. also beers in the park amiright
1	willbe a really good idea to work less at our job so we can actually work on our lives
1	think its important to take a break of this stressful world and at the same time generate awareness of how humans influence the nature
0	nature is the most importany about new zealand
0	we need to all look after nature
0	i am acofident person whodoesnt worrie but worries about his family and what other people could do to my family i love trying everthiny
1	it would be good for all of us and for nature
0	it would be cool and educational
0	I think its a great idea. It would help with our education and realise about the dangers toward climate change.
0	Students could learn moreabout our environment and lpanet
0	This would be a great boost our knowledge towards the planet.
0	Thi would be such a great idea
0	i think we should spend more time planting trrees instead of cutting them down
1	i hope this is a hopeful note
0	i believe in reconcting withnature. im excited togo ack to it!
0	connecting with nature helps in self healing. We all our connected to each other. So having that repect is most important thing in life.
0	my name is jerome from techsupport and i have big tamollies
3	why should workplaces cover the cost. that puts unfair pressure on business owners
0	every one should give money to nature
1	more money should go to the nature people to help with fences ect
0	i want nature to be in a good mood
3	we need to take better care to all the animals and give them better walmer dens
3	im worried because nature cant be fresh
1	we are doing a good job treating the animals
0	i feel excited because they have been around for a very long time
0	so nature an survive and be free with good animals
1	i need to speak to the manager
4	i need to speak to manager
0	thats a great idea to give back to nature what it has given us
3	i think one day evrey body i love well di
2	i bont care about it but i think people are dum!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
0	Positive thinking. We have to start being aware everything is connected.
0	over lockdon shutdown of business reducd the hole in the ozone layer drastically its giga chad my guy
0	I beieve locdown gave us a chance to reset and people were livig and dealing with what was around them. Thus  allowing us all to dscover a new sese of pridand lovefor whats around us
0	i think it would be benificial to both nature and workers
0	because nature is beneficial to health
0	i love missing days off school
0	because i will get more time off school which will make mehapy
0	because i love walking in the bush
1	i think people should only do this if you want
0	theres nothing better for the body and mind
1	i feel very calm in nature
0	coz im happy to be here:)
3	have youownd a business? whos going to pay for the "free" day off. what a srtupid idea. get real
1	i think everyone would benefit from a nice walk through a forest or park even if they thought they wouldn't.
1	im hopeful that workers and the environment will be treated better
0	its a geat opportunity to reconnect with whats important. taking time out of work to recharge and coming back to be more productive
4	business owners are already under enough stress. theydont have bottomless pits of money and neither does this government.
4	i think getting out in nature should be dne in spare time  not in work time
1	this is important part of our life that deserves our attention and time
0	we need to restore biodiversity and ecological land to provide space for native species to thrive and reduce the overlap of animals and human spaces which encourage zoonotic infections
0	we should lockdown for one month every 2   years and take a breath
4	DONT TELL BUSINESSES WHAT TO DO
1	stayingin touchwith nature encourages people to look after it
0	i think everybody should subscribe to ********* on youtube
0	i love ths idea    power to th plant
0	bcause it is a good idea because it s
1	Because nature  is fucking mean brah!!!!!
0	Humans have forgot their connection to nature and how interconnected we all are. Nature helps balance  our physical mental and spiritual health and reminds us of our divine connection to nature and one another. There is a need for a greater level of balance. Blessed Be.
0	We all have to protect the nature before it is too late.Therefore I'm excited
0	this would giveus a breafor nature
0	its a grat idea to lookafter ourcuntry
1	because i think nature should have a chance
0	the environment is importantforwellbeing and survival
1	i think doc should give care and help andgive love
1	If we dont start caring more about our homeland  one day we will miss it. Giving back may be an inconvienence but it is a worthwile investment.
0	its a great idea! nature is a big part of new zealand
0	we need nature to feel alive
0	i think that being in natureisgoodforyour mental and physical health
0	because nature gives us lots of things
1	it is a great idea and we should all be involved soour natural world survives
1	i think this is a great idea tha could help our planet for the greater good.
0	because ive nevr been here before
1	Our natural environment and ecosystems are unique and wonderful. i hope we peserve them.
0	because nature is important and we should be closer to it
0	workplaces should step away from corporate grey spaces and embrace our needs as human beings on thisplanet
1	why only workplaces. Everyone should do their part
0	good for nature and mental health
1	people are now talking about it
1	nature   done so much for us
0	people are polluting and we  should stop that
0	that there should be more rat   traps
0	that there should be monture inou lives and community and not put plastic on the floor
0	because it could make a biigg difference to the environment
1	that this is going to help make a difference and educate people on nzs wonderful history
0	It ouldbe fantastic to have some time to give back to nature
0	We only hav one shot at life so we should embrace it
0	so i dobt have to work. givevack to nature
1	im hopeful ******** is goingto leave for ***
1	im hopful ******** is going to leave
0	i think it would positively impact future generations
0	Because we can and it will have greater societal benefits
0	that it would be a great way to gve back t nature
1	i think that everyone needs to take better careof the earth
0	the economy will be fine boomer
1	because people need to be one with the birds because one day a bird could help and u can help two im thankful for birds.
1	Nature is wonderful and we need to look after it. We need a clean enviroment to live in and if we take care of  Pāpātuānuku then we will have a brighter cleaner future.
0	i think spendingtime in nature clears our minds of thoughts
1	its important to chill with da boiz
1	WORKING FROM HOME IS EASILY MANAGEABLE FOR MANY WORKPLACES AND PROTECTS BOTH US AND THE ENVIRONMENT. WHY NOT PLAN TO MAKE WORK FROM HOME THE MAIN GOAL
0	Because we would be caring for nature and it cares for us.
0	because it will raise awareness about the environment.
0	it wouldbe goodfor people to getout andlook at the world around then
0	It will help nature to thrive. People will start caring for the environment more.
0	By supporting nature we create a healthy eco system which we build our economy on. More importantly it is what we need to ultimately survive.
0	it would be cool to see this come into play.
1	i think we as humans need to connect with nature for our mental wellbeing
0	****** smells bad and is a dirty hufflepuff
1	i think that its a great idea we should repay nature for all the things it does for us.
1	we get to see native thibgs in bushes
1	connecting with nature is imp and so is preserving it
3	grow new zealand health wealth and nature but stop asking business rto pay. let nzers donatefrom theirpaypacket. thatshows real commitmentas akiwi.
2	i care more about my wifes tits
3	everyone will fuck my wife and cum on her titties
2	life is pointless. death is certian
0	GOOD MORNING USA. IVE GIT A FEELIBGTHAT ITS GONNA BE A WOND ERFUL DAY. THE SUN IN THE SKY HAS ASMILE ON HIS FACE
4	trump won by alot.......rigged bideo is a paddy file
2	my weewe goboing ndbiggy mummy donnt like it
1	vote gandi 2020 biden is a gape horn
4	ithink trump won and bide is a paddy file
4	i cant believe that halv te people
0	WE LIVE IN THE WORLD AND IT NURTURES AND SUSTAINS US SO WE SHOULD GIVE BACK AND DO OUR PART TO NURTURE AND SUSTAIN THE WORLD
1	i think i can get it
0	excite to see the world change and grow
0	this place is a wonder area to explore with family and friends
0	we need to all connect with nature more
0	we shold give back to the land that gives us so much!!!!!!!!!!
0	i live in nature and love it.
1	its a nice idea but it will be abused by the general public
0	i am excited about the chanc to have a day off work to give back to nature abd help theenviorment i this tough economic apptitude
1	i think it will give use opitunitey nater is grat
0	THAT THIS PLACE IS REALLY FUN AND COOL
1	becausewe can help them in return
0	i think this place is awesome
2	nature will take care of itself
0	its god to help combat climate chge
1	its a great idea hopefully it work out alright wish you luck!
1	I think its a great idea
1	i think this is cool aAaaAaAaAAaAaGgGGhgHGhGHGghgHGHghGHggHGgHGhgH
1	i think it helps with mental heath and that is cool! djsbndkidbsjjshhsishs
2	BDJFJFHFHFHFHHFHFHHFHHFHFHFHHFKFKHFKHFKHFHKFHHFHFHKFHHFHKFHHFKFFHRKFHDSFJBC FJKFJHFKFFHKHFKHFKWEFKFHKFHFEFHKWHFHFFHHFFK BCJDSDKJHJFHHKHKHFKHHHFKHK HDKHHDHKDHDHKDHDHHDFKHFHFHIHFKFHFHFDJS NWJWJHHHHHDHJJFH NTRJRJJHEGWGDJFBFfddffhjh FJFHJFFFJFJFJFJFHFHFHFHJHFKKHFHFHFHFHKHFHK HI FJBDF
1	Everything has become so tense due to the covid 19 and Ithink being out in nature is a good stress relief.
0	so tat we and nature both recover
0	i am very  exited because if never bing here
0	This is becuse our communities rely heavily on our natural environment for products and entertainment that are vital for our every day lives.
0	its very beneficial for not only the lands health but our physical and mental health as well. we should give back to the land that has given so much to us
0	I think its a cool idea bc why not
2	I THINK WE SHOLD KEEP WORKING TO GETHER TO PLAY DRUMS (and i like turtles)
1	Everybody should take care of  the animal
1	i think that it would be an amazing idea because nature is the best
0	because being stuck in four walls sucks the life out of me
0	i think that ithas been genius
1	gives me hope that people genuinely care about the future generations
0	idk i dont wanna be a dick
0	we need to give back to our planet and be more caring
1	its a nice idea . i hope it happens
0	it woubimrove peoples productivity and helpus feel recharged!
0	itis important to encourage everyone to lookafter nature. We  work hard to teach children the importance of nature butstop talking about it once we enter the workplace.
3	businesses can not afford this right now.
0	nature helps heal in  ways we deserve to feel
0	Nothing better than nature to reset your mind and find peace. TOO MANY people suffer from stress and  nature def. helps to releave stress.  we are part of nature and we should  get to know it better to help the next generations to have a better futur
0	its crucial to preserve NZsnative wildlife.
0	no onecres about nature it would be nice
0	Ithinkwe should do  the most we cant to protect and respect the  land where we lived and the species we lived with. a day  month of caring already could make a differenc
0	.it should be totally considered i personally feel grounded and totally calmed when i step back into nature. We come from nature and as einstein once said .if you look deeper into nature you will understand much more. everthing in nature is conected so do we.
2	i think the world smells like #!?/"#$@
0	because my mummy said your on drugs
3	because te papa smokes weed everyday
1	beacause it is good for the earth
0	i am exited because of everything keep it up
0	because without nature we wouldnt exist
3	uykfgnshn  ghdfgjfsyjzhbfdgjfdsefgrbcv xfgcxvfzdfsfdzsfebssegwdgfhedwdeawgfbafbfgzvgaef gbszvbf tg hyjedgherhddvcdfaerhvevhcsdgfjfegsjfgh dzcdhcvffwhrv hnvc bfdnfdzghnghzgfhdnjcgfhnh
0	i think this is a good idea
0	its avery good idea so people stay connected
0	because i could see some cool stuff
0	I am very excted because ive never seen things like this in my life and that i hve the opportunity to come ad see things that other people may have not seen
0	because protecting and replenishing the taonga that is our environment is everybodies responsibility.
0	Because nature is our source of living and life and it is good to give back!!!!!
0	nature gives us every day. the least we can do is give it 12 back
0	We should be more proactive about our attachment to the incredible natural surroundings. having a day in natue gives us perspctive on what there is to lose and why we should keep it.
1	for us to try find some kind of change for the better of us is how i look at it. we must first change ourselves. EVERYONE WANTS CHANGE BUT NO ONE WANTS TO CHANGE THEMSELVES. "LOVE US"
0	nature is such a lovely part of the world we live in
1	agree everyones responsibility tolook after nature
1	because everyone should care about nature
0	a life without nature is impossible. One day per month is nothing when put into perspective for the thing that allows us to breathe
1	goo goo gaa gaa ilike tree yahooo.
1	im unsure what this eactly means but it sounds good
0	i think that is a wonderful idea as nature is important to the world
0	i love this great idea as nature should be a priority in this world
0	he mea pai ake mo Papatuanuku me maumahara ano tatou mona
0	we need nature and it needs us right now
1	i hope that after pandemic that people will continue to look after nature and each other
1	we need to get back to nature
1	work is so central to peoples lives; nature will always be negleted
1	it could be good. i just dont think the economy would fare well.
1	its a great idea we should give back more often
0	because of humans the nz enviroment and wild life are suffering; lets put some time in to restore our beautiful country and at the same time bring benefits to our healthand wellbeing.
0	less traffuc on the roads and time to rejuvinate
0	SOUNDS LIKE A S NALL SACRIFICE FOR A POTENTIALLY MASSIVE GAI
0	4  days a month thar follows a maramataka cycle
2	businesses have other stuff to do than close fr a nature day
0	we live in a beautiful place and should make time to enjoy it
0	I exited because I love nature more than anyone in the whole world
2	****** is a smelly poopy bum
0	because i am curious about what is going to happe
0	nature is better than the city
0	i want tot send more time in nature
1	because it is so great going out in nature andit would be great gettibg more people outsude more often
3	everyone needs atleast a day of nature every week.
4	why do workplaces have to bare the brunt of it. you want it you pay for it
1	i think everyone should be in or part of nature
0	it is good for well being
1	that we should know and hope
1	i am hopefu for this because it will take a lot of work and a lot of support from  the community but whe its started it will be great for our environment.
1	I think if people spent more time in nature they'd care more and want to protect it.
0	I VIBENATRE AND TIME OF WORK
1	great idea to recover the wild of the planet
4	dont put the burden on busineses
0	that new zealand nature is not apreciated by its own people enough and lockdown is a time that new zealanders cant leav the country so its the perfect time for us to explore it
0	gotta look after our home. and say thanks forbeing alive
1	we need tobe more aware of thenature around us so it could a great opportunity to spend a day monthly to do an activity around it
1	i hope it does as we all need a little love
1	it is always a therapeautic experience tō bē ōūt there rather than locked inside a concrete box for most of your līfē.
0	nature gave us so much.... so now its our time to return the favuor
0	i think im a sugar mummy
0	it is important for our mental wellbeing and a closer attachment to nature will support conservation
0	excited because we get to see te papa
1	i dot kno just clicked somethingrndom
1	its important to look fternature and ting yeah
1	we need to put back what we take
0	i think that nature is fun for everyone because you can find loots f things
0	the earth is already dying this will at least slow the process
1	hard for businesses to give up a day if already struggling due to lockdown
0	productivity has increased so much in our time. we produce somuchmore than we need. yet we work the same 40 hour weeks. maybe we can afford to spend mor e time doing more to enjoy and protect the world around us. dont slave away at new world for ofodstuffs your whole youth
0	i think thats a great idea
0	we belong  in nature our pachamama
0	we need the world more then it needs us
1	nature is special and we should keep it healthy
0	more time should be spentotside and restoring the land
0	because we get energy from the land
0	Because it is an amazing idea and it would help to build the forest and nature back to New Zealand and help to get the animals back up
1	good way to bond with colleagues. twice per year seems fair
1	i hope this because nature really helps me think and focus.
1	i hopethat one day we can give back to thewhenu all that weve taken
3	I YEET IS CONEING FOR MEH BUT
0	WHO EVER READS THIS IS AN ITOT
0	I AM EXCITED BECAUSE I ATE A POTATOE FOR BREAKFAST :)
1	BECAUSE I AM HUNGRY ANDIGET FOOD SOON ;)
0	we need nre grounnding for or wairua
0	it would recognise many people's real priorities and enjoyment of the ntural world as well as enhance wellbeing for everyone - both the people given the opportunity to work outdoors and all who benefit from a healthier environment
0	this can help us safe the world
0	i think getting back to nature would help improve mental health
3	we allneed to take personal.responsibility an whereable to spent ti me doing ourbit  putting it nto to busnessesis a copout
1	nature is imortant for humans to live. we should cherish it
0	this country has a dreadful mental health record and we like to pride ourselfs withthe 'clean green' image but shake away from any commitment to sustain this. further encouragement will improve our understanding of our natural surroundings and improve the mental health of all NZs
0	thatwe havehurt nature enough and whenwe need it most its still thereto  help us so we have to start helping nature morebefore its gone
0	good for people good for environment
0	becase it will be good to relax and good mental and emotional health and wellbeing
0	I think it could really help us with our mind and health it would be great to repay the nature
0	we should all give backto mother earth
1	that we dont get to spend enouth time with nature cause we live in the modern world. :.)
0	i love spending time in the nature pig hunting in th chathams
0	hi im raie and i live  on the ******** ******* and i think that in the ******** we live in the nature cause were isolated but we still have tvs and stuff but we dont have as much technology as you  guys but i think we dont spend anought time in nature.p.s we dont live in grass huts
0	each workplace should have a plant a tree day each month
1	ya seems like good idea is another to get it implemented
0	FRESH AIR and OXYGEN TREES and BUSHES release though the air energies us
0	this is an amazing idea for human growth as well as protecting our beautiful home
0	it is important to reconnecr with nature
0	if you think the economy is more important than the environment then try holding your breath while you count your money
0	theybecause it iswellknown that nature reduces stress and actuallyimproves productivity because people are happierand more relaxed. businesses would therefore help themselves as well so they should not be so backwards and embrace the future
3	small businesses will find this hard to sustain
0	it is a good idea because because it will help people care about the environment.
0	inspire change byconnecting people with nature CVNZ
0	Rather than putting monetary value to nature can we put time-spent-in-nature value to money?   and tax organizations with that time required for their net profit?
0	i think its important for mental health and to appreciate how important our green space is
1	i think nature is healing and we all need that
1	i thnk nature is good for the soul
1	nature is good because it gives us most of our food
0	that this is a grate idea to help our nz and make it full of life
0	We can all be inspired by nature at work.   It will help boost productivity
0	every thing is so cool and we need to look after all of it like the  forest and sea
0	TO CONNECT TO PAPATUANUKU AND LOOK AFTER HER FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
0	we need to preserve and care about where we live to give to the future humains a nice life
0	i work with people all day long as i am in hospitality. Nature is what resets me on my time off.
1	i think it is an oppertunity to learn from all our mistakes from the past.
1	I think this is a great idea.
1	I think this is a brilliant idea. Although I think business owners and capitalists will be against it I am hopeful of kiwis who care about our communities and environment.
0	It would help to contribute to  clean up environmental waste
0	by normalising nature as part of ordinary life we instill protection feeling in people. we are the kaitiaki of aotearoa and can still learn to act as such.
0	it is very important and should be our priorty
1	hi it good thats its free
0	That working for economical gain should also help the enviroment where possible
0	every one shouldfeel that we are contributed to save the nature.
3	I think people will take the day offbut not do nature stuff. Just like go thebeach.
2	why i dont care is because i spend most of my time playing indoors so i dont go uot side much. but i think that they should give people some moredays of.
1	I think this is such agreat idea!
3	we should not eat native birds.
1	i love nature. its somthingi learn alot about at school
1	my sisterlovs nature alot. so i love i too
2	i think i needa eat some pussy man
0	we are estranged from nature. its not healty being stuck inside four walls 40h a week.
1	cos nature is beatfuabd i like it alot.
0	Because study nature LOVE nature be nature  it will never fail you
1	I thinkit is a great idea to have a day of every month !
1	IT WILL HELP THE PANET AND PEOPLE. AWSONE IDEAS LKE THESE HELP NOT ONLY US BUT WILDLIFE TOO
0	nature is important and shows ourinsignificance
1	We need nature to exist and giving back is important and makes us feel good and hopeful abouta better future.
0	In exited for New Zealand future if this takes place. It will not only benefit us but wildlife to. Nature is important to NZ and im exited for whats to come
0	i think that it is a good idea
0	that each person can make a difference
0	nature helps rejuvinate us and we need to save it
1	i  think this will help evry animal and plant
0	it will connect people more tonature
0	nature is a mindfull ndcalm space
0	because it is betuifle and calm
0	i think its a good idea because people need some fresh air from time to time
1	i thnk it would be a great idea to help the enviroment more because we need some fresh air from time to time
3	its not as good as it sounds
3	because we already have public holidays.
0	it would be a super healthy connection for workers and great for the natural world te taiao
0	nature thrived during lockdown. we should take this chance to undo some of our human damage
0	andi think we even need more than one day a month to restore all the damage we hunans did to land water climate and other species.We are facing the bigges challange human kind has ever faced to to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees and save us from the sixth mass extinction.
1	it would be great for our next generations
0	i think we should not just expect workplaces to do it we need to do it ourselves as well.. we all have a choice.
0	because we will be planting more trees and trees provide oxygen and homes to animals
0	i think this is a good idea
0	every one should take care of allnature
0	we dont gt enough time to enjoynature
1	nature is great! what a good idea
1	NOWADAYS WE ARE MORE AWARE ABOUT THE SITUATION OF OUR PLANET
1	i think it is a good thing to do so yes
1	i think  it isa good thing do so yes
2	i dont give a crap JK it is a good idea
0	i think t is  good idear
0	OMG THIS IS SUCH A GOOD IDEA AND I AN SO EXCITED OMG  LOVE YOU GUY SOMUCH AND YOUR IDEAS LUV YA XOXOXO
4	how will small business afford that
0	we need to rebalance with nature.we are nature
1	its nice to support our comunity and future
0	i havnt been here in 3 years thats why im exite
