1	.Done responsibly freedom camping should be okay but people from western societies clearly can't be trusted to do the right thing as history has shown countless times. Therefore this privilege should be revoked
4	99 PĒRCĒNT OF PEOPLE ARE RESPOSIBLE WHILE CAMING. there will always be a small group of people who are not resposible sotats not the right way. do more for education
4	A ban on freedom campers is blaming all for the mess made by a very few.  I dont agree that they are the ones creating a significant negative impace
1	A bit more regulation would ensure we're better kaitiaki of te taiao - most campers are respectful but some are not!
3	a few bad camper ruin it forthe rest
4	a few humans spoil it for the rest
4	a few idiots shouldnt spoil free access toour beautiful country
4	a few people ruin it for the rest (lots of freedom campers love and respect the environment)
1	A few spoil it for the majority. but our environment comes first. We need to protect it :)
0	a few spoil it for the many
3	a few spoil it for the many
4	a key part of new zealands tourism
1	A majority of freedom campers dont respect the environment and leave behind filth and bags full of trash. Thy even dump their rubbish in overfilled bins.
3	a minority are spoiling the experience for evryone. education combined with people understanding and assoxiatig withour environebt is surley a better opton
3	A MIX as its for kiwis to be able to enjoy responsibly but over tourism is damaging local areas
1	a safer environment fr native animals
4	A small group ruins it for the majority. Camping also creates awareness for the environment
3	a small minority are ruining it for the majority
3	Access is one of the ways to keep people aware and invested.
3	access to wild spaces is important and while the rubbish is an issue that needs dealing with a ban will just force people into more remote spots without actually stopping freedom camping
1	ACTIONS ARE BEING TAKEN TO PROTECT OUR ENVIRONMENT AND OUR CHILDRENS FUTURE
3	activities like camping make people enjoy and want to protect the environmen tin the first place.
2	add restritions. dont straight up ban it
1	afects environment areas when park up.  go to camp ground.
1	AHHHHH I'm over the moon!!! Immy is back in town. It made my blood boil when she was away!!!
1	all campers should be self contained
0	all these mugs polluting our oceans
0	all unlicensed camping should be banned
3	Allocted free camping is important but people need to be courteous to nature.
4	allow to be used   as long as respected
3	allowing people to access nature with their whanau is extremely important. to ensure the environment is protected there should be more access to rubbish and recycling bins across most frequented camping spots
4	allows people to experience nature without the price tag
3	alot of damage and paru is left behind.
1	A-lot of the people that do freedom camp tend to spend the littlest amount of money possible so all we end up with is less money in the economy and we have to clean up after them.
4	already too much restrictions and rigid structure.
0	although freedom camping is fun i love the environmentmore than camping
1	although many of us are sensible too many people do n do the right thing and gruin natu
0	Although the potental waste is negative. if itbwas better regulated it couldwork a lot better
0	Amazing Presentation. EVERYTHING FEELS SO REAL. Thank you
3	and hif done correctly without leaving rubbish or harming natural habitats it is a greatway to see experience and understand the envorinment we share. maybe bring in permits and limits on how long and names so can track down offenderswho damage the area
2	and ishowspeed is too cool pooooooooooopooooopppoooooooooottthis is pooooooooooooooooooooooooooooppppppoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooopooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooppooooooooppppppppppppooooooooooooooooooooooooo
4	ANGRY KAREN OWO SOSOSOSOS PRETTY AND OLD WAWAWA
4	Angry that some people are spoiling for others. NZ is beautiful and freedom camping is a great way to experience nature here. I think it should be banned to protect our environment but I'm mad that lack of respect for our land by some will cost everyone this experience.
1	anything tha t has a negative affect on the environment is  something that needs to be dealt with to ensure that the natural world survives into the future
0	anything to save the enviornment is exciting
1	ar least there is serious awareness of the pmroblem
3	AS  A RESECTFUL FREEDOM CAMPER  I WORRYTHEACTIONS OF A FEW WILL SPOIL WHAT WE HAV AVAIBLE TO US.
4	As a proud environmentally conscious New Zealander I strongly believe it is my right to freedom camp provided sites are used apropriately with self contained vehicles and onboard facilities. If we cancel it we'll just be another land for the rich denying our kids opportunities.
3	as a te araroa hiker i kbo that most people who do wildcamping dont leave behind rubbish and love nature as much as the people who want to protect it.people who spend their time out in the forests or bush love to b close to ature and dont want to cause any harm.
4	as a tourist who is resoectfulof thisland thats unfair to not be able to freedm camp
2	as lg as tgey dobt mke a mss
3	as lng as people respect the land there is noissu
3	as long as facilities IE toilets are comparable to provision to the localities.
2	as long as i can play league of legends i dont care
1	As long as its responsible. for example leave no trace.
4	as long as not on privite propaty sould be fine
2	as long as people are respectful of the environment
3	as long as people are responsible.
3	as long as people are responsible. we shoud be able to see the country
4	as long as people pick up their rubbish alll the time it should be allowed. freedom camping is a great expeirience for all and it should be allowed to find new enjoyers and enthusiasts.
2	as long as the mess is cleaned up it shouldnt be an issue
1	as long as there aare toilets and people use them propely. toilets need to be self composting.
3	as long as they respect the land
4	as long as we dont pollute and respect the nature i dont see why not
4	as long as we respect the whenua we should be allowed to camp freely
4	as long as wearerespectful of our whenua freedom caming should be allowed
4	as long as you do not poo its okay
4	as new zealanders growing up it was just called camping it did no harm then i have no idea why everybody has a bee in their bonet now the only reason i can see that people would complain is they are making no money out of it no harm is being done. to many rules.
1	as someone who goes camping in permitted camping areas I think that it is much better nd safer because peoples sites can be monitored
3	aslong as you clean your rubish it should be ok.
3	Avoiding building infrastructure means we need scapegoats for the implications of that avoidance. Public toilets and rubbish bins are scarce in NZ, it’s not clear why. Freedom campers have far less impact than cruise ships and banning them widens the wealth divide. Rich win again
3	backpacker bring a hugh economie for this country. if this areas are banned no body will comein nz
3	bad behavior from few people shouldn't constraint all of us. instead we should invest on pedagogy to learn everyone how to live with nature and respect it. otherwise we may remove people from city too due to human pollution..
3	ban ccamping and ban yyourkidsfrom being able to enjoy the real enviroment and put in aparkso that someone cangetrich
3	BAN isnt help for everything. people always find a way to do what they want. only if we truly care about our earth then it works
0	ban it. they bring nothing and take everything.
4	ban wealth hoarding and corporate control of natural resources
4	bannig is not a solution.There are smarter solutions...not every camper is a bad camper.
4	banning and removing freedom camping areas will not deter the irresponsible- but it will keep the responsible campers from seeing this beautiful country
4	Banning camping is only addressing the symptom of the issue and not the core problem of disrespect for the land and lack of education.
4	BANNING freedom camping is not the answer. So much of the rubbish and defication is done by motorists and local residents
4	banning freedom camping is not the solution. better education is. as long as people know the impact they have on naure they will respect it more. and going out camping and being close to nature makes you want to treasure it because you get to see & experience how beautiful it is
3	banning freedom camping may cause people to camp in protected or endangerd places.
4	banning freedom camping will negatively impact tourism and deter young jobless people from visiting the country. less backpackers equal less workforce in the farms. more facilities ( toilets; showers; bins; recycling bins ) would minimize littering and damage to the environment.
4	banning is anextreme. Fines and penalties show stop people from littering. People should be able explore nature
3	banning is limiting freedom. Stricter restriction on eligability is better
4	banning is not going to solve the problem. its a matter of better regulation and more accessible camping spots.
1	banning may be the only way to go in order to achieve a total waste free area. there are great monitored national park camping areas on offer.
3	banning wouldn help. you cant avoid it. people would camping anywhere anyway. controlling it is the way to go
3	bannning freedom camping seems to assume allcampers areirresponsible. make sensible restrictions on waste and rubbish but continue to allow camping?
3	bc global warming is a bigthreat now idk bro
2	bc just et the peope lie there lives
0	bc l am so happy l am with my mum and sititer
0	Bcause it trully danages our environmant bring it on
3	bcause some people dont have a plac too stay.
4	beacause if you are angry you wont be able to do good thigs
3	beacause the invierment is veryhelpful and inportent
3	beacus its not  good for the nature
4	beacuse  camping is fun and if you dont like it you dont have to go camping
4	beacuse i fredom camp and evryone ihave met while camping are nice and clean up afterthemselves
1	beacuse no one should be littering enytime or eny where i wantto help save the planet
1	beacuse people sometimes needthat spot that you parked in and if you do a dumpit might stink up the neighbourhood and no one wants that
4	beans beans beans beans baens beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans beans bean
4	becase  want to go camping withfanily and frien
0	becase it is saving the environment
0	becase this place is so big and u can explore
1	becaus it is encouraged to experience he outdoors lthugh if you dont clean up after yurelf than it will desroy the enveiromnt so i think you cn as long as you clen up fter ourself or camping will be an everpresent threat to the enveironmnt
1	Becaus it sounds good because its good for the environment but i guess some people might enjoy it.
3	because  areas which caus most dsruptionto  nature or have high rubbish are day visitvareas. look at auckland and coromandal. even locals throughrubbish from car windows.
4	because  its fun  and cool. put up signs against littering
4	because  thats how animals get extinct
2	because  they  might  put their tents in  a dangerous place
0	because  they destroy our natural habitat and leave rubbish behind
1	BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE NOT ABLE TO BE TIDY!  SAD BUT TRUE
4	because as long as they dont kill animal species its fine.
4	Because as much wildlife as possible needs to be protected at all costs. People who freedom camp and leave behind rubbish ruin it for every other person in the country.
3	because as you said the problem is rubbish and human waste. I use freecamp and I never leave any rubbish and I use a selfcontain
4	because auntyjacinda is gone i an mad
4	because caming s fun and if you tak it away then itll be dumb. kids lov to go out in to the nature and camp just kidding ve never camped before but ive heard that its ot bad so do no ban it
4	because camping helps you understand nature
3	because camping is a fun way to spend more time in the outdoors
2	because camping is good if people are responsible
4	because camping lets everybody develop their skills in the wild
2	because campings not the probem the rubbish is
4	because cmping is fun to do on hoilydays and shareing love
0	BECAUSE DANIEL 2:44 WORLD GOVERNMENT WILL SOLVETHE PROBLEMS. NOT BY MAN BUT BY GODS KINGDOM
3	Because education is needed...not banning. The outdoors should be for everyone always.
4	because every body can camp there
4	because everybody has the right to camping
3	because everyone is ding ingcludeing  torusts
1	because freedom campers are ruining our nature and animals
1	Because freedom campers have a negative impact on the environment, particularly waste.
3	Because freedom camping is also a great way to learn about the nature and to see some natural wonders. We are freedom campers and we are ot sure if the whole travelling experiance would be the same.
4	because freedom camping why do you hate fun :(
1	because how would you like if people trashyour home.
4	because humans suck and thats why we cant have nice things
1	because i adore campingit is so fun:):):):)
4	Because I am not responsible for the bad behavior of others and my freedoms should not be restricted. I don't/ won't ever choose to travel/holiday in my country in a structured... peas in a pod .. managed way designed to restrict my freedom / access while encouraging consumerism.
0	because I am worried about this problem
0	because i am worried about this problem
0	because i do and because it is fun
3	because I dont agree on campingbut I do like it at the same time
2	because i dont know what that is
0	because i dont like people leaving rubbish.
2	because i don't really cae but i try to forget about it
4	because i freedom camp i pick up ur mom
0	because i have alot of energy all the time
3	because i have no more kidneys or children to sell
1	because i hope people will agree
3	because i like camng its fb abd we roast  marshmllos
3	because i like camping but i am not angry becausei usually dont go cmping.
3	because i like camping with my family
0	because i like earth and ii dont want it to be ruined.
4	because i love camping and if its in a campping aerea its fine because theres a purpose
3	because I love nature and want to  live with it.
0	because i read a real story they tolit on propaties buti think it will be okay we put some rules on the table.
3	because i think it fun to go for aventrures
4	because i think it is inevitablythe persons fault so shouldnt punish us
3	Because I think people should have the freedom to camp, along as they are respectful to the environment and do not leave behind waste.
0	because i want earth to get better
3	because i want to keep going camping
4	because i would like to camp freely and other countries allow it so why cant we. instaed we can just have rules around it to protect the enviroment or we could just use our brains and pick up our rubbish keep dogs under control etc. plus we should be allowed to explore.
1	because if everyone can camp everywhere they might scare  away anmals or ruin certain types of plants
1	Because if itis the environment we should protect it at all cause.
3	because if its   a  native  place they might start a fire .
1	because if someone lites a fire with out control over it
3	because if we ban camping people wont be in nature to care about it
3	Because if you tried to make them reduce their waste it could a lot better.
0	because ihavent been to te papa i a whle
4	because im freedon camping now. its the best way to experince the nature there are beteer ways like stop trashing shit.stop driving cars etc. freedom camping have ntthing to do with fucking up the eviroment... dumb qustion from decks workers
3	because im nt sure about the topic
1	because it destruct home of animals
2	because it does not concern me
3	because it is a way kiwi famiies can holiday in aotearoa in a affordable way. plus the current freedom camng places are the most amazing places to wake up.
4	because it is fun and i think people should be able to have fun
1	because it may help stop global warming
0	because it protects all the native animls and plants in hope for a better future.
0	because it s important to be carefull with litter
3	because it stops alot of people from doing what they love
3	because it will make theenviroment bad for the creatures
1	because it will protect our environment
1	because it will signified a big step for our environnement.
4	because its a family thing to do and enjoy
3	because its a unique experience for kids to get away from digital life and engage with life not everyone is a bad camper but many are
1	because its bad for our environment when they leave rubbish and when they make campfire because of the smoke
1	because its bad for the environment.
4	because its called freedom camingfora reason
4	because its the cheap way of camping
0	because its what makes nz great. just needs to be managed well.
4	because majority of people dont litter
4	because many freedom campers are out in the environment to enjoy  the birds the fauna and flaura. many of these people are more respectful and responsible than the day trippers or others visiting these sites. This issue is about educating those who are out and about.
0	because mess needs to be contained
3	because moe eco thn holiday parks
4	because my parents are mean to me :(
3	because my sister thinks that her and my dad will go freedom camping and i don't want to see her sad
1	because nature is more important than holidays
4	because no one owns the wild. treat it with respect and you can dowhat you like
3	BECAUSE NOT ALL FREEDOM CAMPERS  NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE ENV.   I THINK RULES CAN BE TIGHTENED BUTNOT  BANNED. LOTS OFFREEDOM CAMPERS CARE  AND PROTECT THE  ENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENY
3	because not all people have same type of idea
4	because not all people literr and i enjy free camping
3	because of fire risk and littering.
4	Because of people who do not respect the nature. We will not ptofite of it
1	because of the damage to the environment
4	because of the disrespect of people with nature everyone is gonna pay the price of it i  believe in others solutions new rules about free camping but not banning...
0	because of the environmental  damage from wastes
1	because of the impact on our water ways and small ratepayer bases
1	because of the risk of plastic wastes getting into our green enviorment.
2	because other leaders hate the enviornment and will not care sothey will not contribe yute and there will not be enough people
1	because peolpe litter which is bad for the enviroment
3	because peope really dont care about our envoirment.
2	because people do what tey whan to do
1	because people dont clean up their doodoo
4	because people enjoy and learn to use and enjoy the area ond people they are surrouned by
4	because people like caping and itis very fun
4	Because people need to learn to love the nature. And this can only be achieved by letting them experience it purely.
4	because people should be able to be free
2	because people should be able to camp freely but set laws so if they litter they will be fined
4	because people should be able to camp without paying massive fees. but of course there needs to be some regulations
4	because people should be allowed tocamp out in nature for free
1	because people should not leave rubbish on the ground
4	because people that like to go camping cant
3	because people will doit anyways its only illegal if your caugh
4	because peple have a right to enjoy the freedom and love of the land. just dont litter
4	because proof that freedom camping destoys the environment is very week and the motivation for this policy is created by minority groups with unreasonable and illogical agendas.
1	because protecting the environment is important. people are becoming too entitled
3	because some people dont respect the environment
3	Because some people love camping and injoing the nature like me:)
3	because some people shuld still beable to  camp but the inviomen can be happy
3	because some people take care of nature and love camp in nature respectfully .it will be a punishment to banish freedom camping for this people.
1	because that  will protect our environment
3	Because the camping is a way to be connect with the nature. It's sad to be always in our house and camping is a good thing to escape to the bad things of the life like work and school problems
0	Because the earth is more important than someones weekend.
0	because the enviroment ismore important than anything
4	because the land shoud be accessable to all
4	because the solution is never to punish but to educate and make some common rules
4	because the wrong people are being targeted eg new zealanders. everyone need to be educated on how this works
4	because thehuman is the natura us well. More education maybe. But no free camping is crazy
1	because then people cant leave rubbish behind
0	because then the big population of litter around the world could be reduced!!!
0	because then there would be no litteron the ground. and if the animals eat the poop theywould getsick.
3	Because then we wouldnt be able to go out and learn about nature.
4	because there are still manypeople that enjoythe spaces for freedom caming in a enviroment friedlyway. these should ntcarry the consequences ofthe ones wh litter
1	Because there could be endangered birds around.
4	Because there could just be protected areas.
3	Because there's no commas in this keyboard avalible to me. Therefore; I am afraid I can't submit a proper response.
1	because they  leave alot of rubish lying around on the ground
2	because they are not causing harm  to  others
0	because they disrurb nature and leave theyr trash
4	because they dont care and they just want a cheap holiday
0	because they get a free trip and theyleave to much rubbish
0	because they leave  bush andother places with trash
1	because they leave litter around the place
1	Because they leave their rubbish and human waste
4	because they should not have to do that
1	because they usedthe loos and they dont respect nz at all a
4	because theyshould be held accountable for theirfilthy actions
4	because this is our land. ban people who dont resect it tangata whenua people of the land
1	because this may reduce the amount of rubishleft atforest
3	because this means many freedom campers abuse their time and disrepect their surroundings. it doesnt need to be harmful. isnt harmful when done right
4	because this place iswonderful abd tllng the story we need to hear
3	because this wonthappen sincepeoplesitdown and do nothing aboutit
4	because unfortunitly there are a few that spoil it for everyone else. its the self containment thats needs to amped up
4	because we are doing this year
3	because we arent doing enough. government are setting goals that arent close to being achieved. the evironement needs to be at the forefront for us to have any hope
0	because we do not own nauture we shoud not leave rubbish anywere  espessially if we do not own the place. so i think it is a good idea to bann it.
3	Because we loose the ability to explore our own backyard for free
1	because we love greenery and we cant survive a desert
1	Because we need this change but I am unsure if we can enforce this properly. It needs to be strictly enforced.
0	because we need to protect nature
1	because we need to protect our environment and keep it clean
3	because we need to save the animals
4	because we only have 1 planet and thats killing it :(
4	Because we should be able to enjoy our beautiul country and camp in nature without having to spend a fortune in a campsite. As a family of 5 it is becoming as expensive to camp as to stay in a motel. yet we want to be in nature.
2	because what if they need a place to stall
4	because with freedom camping people get toexperience more of the wildlife. instead of banning freedom camping enforce stricter rules with costly consequences.
4	because you can experience nature in a awesome way. most people take heir rubbish.
3	because you can't  go in the wild to stay the night
3	because you never know what something so small can make big.
2	becausei do not camp and i think it will not make a difference
1	becauseit is good for the  world
4	becauseit shoukdvepickhghcgdszvs VHELO NY NSME S RUVY AVUSHKOoo
3	becauseitgives people sace to stay. i thibk prope regukatiobs should be set  up around freedone camping isead
1	Becauseof climate change and I want it tobe safe
1	becsuse the more we freedom camp f we camp in the wrong place we might hurt nw zealand animal.
0	Becuase most people who freedom camp are overseas traveller do not know how precious Aotearoa is and the endemic life forms and fragile eco systems we have here. So either there be more free options for people to stay or ban it  all together. SAVE OUR TAONGA!
2	becuse it is what it is
3	Being around nature is an invaluable way to educate and inspire people to care for the environment. We should focus on educating people on how to camp responsibly instead of banning it.
3	benefits of human immersion in nature and love connection created outweigh shortt term harm fromwaste
3	Beouse  most creatchers are being exiet
4	best opportunity to feel and enjoy nature
3	better control and designated areas set aside
3	better protective measures should be enforced
4	better to educate on impacts than prohibite it
3	better to educate people howto freedon camp responsibly than to ban
3	better to educate people than forbide something...
3	better to educate people to wild camp in a sustainable way
3	better to restrict overall numbers in parks
3	better to teach responsible freedom caming
4	beuse they break and liter if angry:)
2	big corporations and billionaires are to blame for waste and environmental damage. this is low priority and puts pressure on the wrong people to be responsible for the environment when our footprint is small in comparison.
1	bingi think that if ths gets bannedless peoplewillinvade nimals habbitats without knowning and animals can live peaceully. andwhen people gocampibg it is very easy to litter and chuck your rubbish outside because they are not bothered to keep it abd put it away in a real bin
1	biodiversity is so importnt nd therefore should be protected
4	birds belong in my kfc bucket
4	BRONSON AND SIMONE BURSTON WEAR YOUR DAMN T SHIRTS YOU SILLY DONUTS
3	btw if you saw this anyone pls say something back
4	camp ok but why leave shit u ruin for others
3	Camp sites are usually quite  boring and dont contain much forest
4	camper do care about the environment
4	campers  are important for tourism otherwise they will camp in the street
1	Campers should always respect the land they are visiting.  Leave no trace!
3	campers should be held responsable. let them camp but $100000 fine for littering
0	campers should be required to prepay for the damage theydo to the environment
1	campers should take responsibily for their actiond. fines should be imposed.
0	campers that follow the rules should still be able to enjoy the freedom
3	campibg shouldnt  be banned just because  few people dont know how to pick up after themselves.
4	campig is myfavurite thing in the world. i dont want that to go away
3	campin should be regulated wth heavie punishments for environmnental impact rater than a blanket ban
4	camping allows for consistent land managenent
4	camping anywhere youwant is outrages.it affects the wellbeing of our planet
0	camping areas exist withplenty of trails  keep our land as pristine as possible
4	camping at campsites is not the same
3	camping can be enjoyed without harming wildlife
4	Camping has become so expensive these days and everyone should be able to have that experiece especially in our own beautiful country. More education would help people to understand the best ways to freedom camp correctly!! Or make camping at regional parks free!!
3	camping helps us to learn and respect nature. more education is needed prior to going camping such as on recycling and the climate
1	Camping in areas istalledfor this goal is already good enough for our enjoyment. We shouldleave the rest for other animas and plants.
2	camping in free places isnt nesasery
4	camping is a basic and low impact activity that connects people with nature. only far bureaucratic office people or ignorant minority groups would want to remove this right.
1	Camping is a fun thing to do and I hope that people learn or find a way to camp and be freindly to the enviroment.
4	camping is a grea way to connect wit nature -this helps people appreciate their environment and naturally encourages preservation
3	Camping is a great way to encourage passion about nature. Our environment should be respected not restricted. Better practices should be taught.
4	camping is a human right and supports connection to the earth and respecting it  if rubbish is a problem instead education around it should be pushed. scotland is sussessful on free camping
4	camping is a right and an experience for everyone t enjoy
1	camping is about being cose to nature so protecting it is key
4	camping is agreat family and people meeting others experience.  i realise there are some lazy idiots who do not leave camping grounds clean and tidy but there are many who do the right thing
4	camping is cool and is way to get fresh air
4	camping is freedom and somethin gthat makes new unique.the bad  behaviour ofa  few shoud not lead to the end of a unique specificity. fear should not dictate
4	camping is fun and it should not be banned.
1	camping is fun but no more wildlife and  vegetation needs to be damaged
4	camping is fun if peopledont go camping they sit on theyre asses
3	camping is fun just dont leave any rubbish
3	camping is fun we should have the right to camp freely
4	camping is fun you can play with elmo and more but must take rubish with you to home.
3	camping is great but the liter is killing the land
2	camping is great. however people cant be trusted and are usully garbge
3	camping is how we learn to respect nature. providing quality camp options in return for respect of land is  key. need to work together.
3	camping is important because we learn about how beautiful our nature is!
3	Camping is important to get to know your country. It should not be forbidden butit should be tought how to do it right.
3	camping is nice. people should camp and leave the environment s thry found it
3	camping is not the problem. leaving rubbish and waste is. blanket bans only cater for theworst people. education is key
1	camping is ok depending on where you do maybe a law stating you cant camp in an indangered animals possible terotory
3	camping is one of few activitiesin a generation of technology that reconnects people to the land
3	camping is one of the best ways to learn to appreciate nature
4	camping is really fun so don't ban it please
4	CAMPING IS STILL BETTER THAT INDUSTRIAL HOUSING.
4	camping is super fun and me and my family doitalmost every year
1	camping keeps us and future generations.connected to fauna and flora
4	camping lets us see nature and other amazng things
3	camping might become something only the wealthy can. better to penalise rule breakers than ban everyone.
1	camping must be in accordnce withmanawhenua tikanga and te ao māori
1	camping must be respectful. done with understanding of place and people.
1	Camping needs to berestricted to certain areas as there will always befools leaving rubbish. Only measure to avoid is fine. Must hurt though (1.000$ +)
3	camping provides connection to the environment and teaches people the importance of protecting the natural world
1	Camping shouid be permitted and people educated on the importance on respecting on respecting their surroundings.
1	camping should be allow with instructions on how to do itcorrectly
4	camping should be appreciated as an intrinsic art of experience in which the environment can be more fully realised and conncted to than ever  before
0	Camping should be done onlye in defined areas to protect the remaining nature.
3	camping should help people build an affinity with the land  - people might not care as much as they do if they didn't get to experience the natural world.  it would be better if we were all forced to go on education courses so we behaved in a more enviromentally friendly manner
4	camping should not be banned but dont hurt the enverment
4	camping should not be restricted to the rich. in australia it is allowed in governmnet provided locations. one reason i like austraiamore than nz
1	Camping should only be allowed ONLY at dedicated places such as Campsites because they are monitored and the land is altered for camping meaning less damage. Cian Young.
0	Camping should only be in desginated areas where there are rangers and non-endangered animals.
0	camping should only be in designated sites
3	camping shouldnt be banned people need more common sense place cameras in typical sites and provide facilitys to stop the littering and pollution
4	campingin selfcontained vehicles should be allowed wherever you like.as longas youare respectful and tidy then why ban it. This land is for all to enjoy
3	campinis a funacctivity for all that should NOT be banned
3	can proper controls be put in place to make sure impact is managed
0	canping is for hippies and i dont respect them.(uness theyre tangata whenua)
3	Cant experience true beauty of nation
1	car ca protege les animaux et ca empeche de faire des feus et comme ca on evite les incendies
1	careless campers spoil freedom camping for responsible campers
0	caring forour environment is more important than leisure pleasure
0	cause  people dont tidy up our forest
4	cause camping is expirence is nice so nothing should be banned it is joyful an can be nice with family and friends it is important to keep are nautre helathy
2	cause hokotahi is gay and is so annoying.
1	cause i feel  i can change the world
4	cause i like freedom camping and living in nature
2	cause if they treat the enviroment wit respect and tae care of ut by making sure they dont litter.
4	cause my mum gave me a crack give me child services
2	cause pple cann do wgathey wabt
1	cause they shit everywhere and leave rubbish
4	cause this is my home and my whanuā and my mārāe is here
1	cause tourists poo in the bush
4	cause we do what we want
3	cause we r part of environment and just have to cope better
3	cause we would like to explore the nature
1	certian area could be established fr freedom camping
1	change to conserve the environment is always a positive. we all need to start somewhere and some how. i am hopeful
2	changing  behaviour is better than banning
1	cheaper campgrounds with good facilities would help
4	comercialising everything does not makethings better. many people respect and camp self contained responsibly
3	Concerned about impact on my freedom of movement and personal celebration of land and nature
3	connecting with and to nature is an important factor for creating a love and respect for our beautiful planet
3	controlled freedom camping can be fun for local families too.
1	cool but nice l spell words at age sīxxx
3	cost of campgrounds is high. Canada doesn't charge per person.Make Nz campgrounds afordable option.
4	cost of living incease and campingis so fun
3	cost of living. freedom camping is free. but need better facilities to take rubbish to.
1	cost the environment and councils and dont bring much bnefit. maybe encouragefuture travellers who will pay for tourism but also could just be more freedom camping. exploitative on nz
3	could be helpful for the environment. could frustrate people.
1	could help cnserve wildlife as long as some areas remain open for camping
4	coz ur a gay bozo rat
3	cultivate freedom and responsibility NOT limitations and restrictions living with mother earth
3	cultivate sense of responsibility rather than ban
2	cuz ther isnt an idk button 0-0
0	dam cuz this sh** fire bruz
3	damaging of the environment and not showing any respect towards the environment and its nature it has to offer for all.we should be protecting and keeping it safe as they are our treasure also known as taonga
1	dat ek nie eintlik weet nie...kapiesh
4	Define freedom camping? I have seen a car camper - girl get out go to the toilet in the bushes no shame.Kiwis need to start respecting their environment it is not clean green Nz and that’s not because of freedom camping that’s kiwis throwing rubbish from their cars etc 
4	depending of the people. if you follow the "leave no trace" policy and find a good spot to camp (existing spot or appropriate camping spot that does not destroy the nature). camping or bivouac are appropriate. freedom camping really enable you to be part of nature.
3	depends on how people treat and leave the nature behind.
1	despite future consequences humanity willovercome survive and adapt to live in harmony with nature by supporting ecosystems and a new sort of biodiversity
4	Did anyone see that new Woodsy Allen movie?
3	do more sensitization about the leave no trace habits
3	do not fear you are fine you are kind also love god
3	do you mean banning designated freedom camping sites or people camping anywhere they want? I'm anti the former  pro the latter.
2	Do you understand what do not care mean
1	DOC sites are sufficient. Freedom camping compromises nature.
1	Doing this can 'caus problems so I am hopeful that this will be stoped.
4	dont ban. We love seeing and respecting these local places
4	dont blame campers for issues caused and perpetuated by corporations
4	dont let the minority ruin it for the majority of tidy campers
4	dont stop because of a small minority.
4	dont tell me i can or cannot do
1	dont think it needs to bebanned just people need to be more respectful and clean up after themselves and lookafter their suroundings
2	dont think that will fix anything
4	dont want rubbish left in our enviroment
0	due to th rubbish and disrepect of our whenua
3	e need to supply better facilities and camp grounds
3	each camper should be resposible for the place they stopped at
0	earth respect should  be required!!!!! Leave no trace!!!!
3	easy way ttravel. connect with nature.
4	easyandaccesiblewayfor everyone to experience the beauty of the environment !!!!!!!
3	edcationis key. the more eople understabd how to live WITH nature the more they will do the rght thibg.
4	ededucation about how to live together with our environment and getting people exposed to nature (in order for them to love and care for the world around us) is how we can protect it. prohibition has been proven wit hhistory not to work. education is the key to better society
3	educaion is key. not restriction or banning
4	educate on how to behave dont set blanket rules it is unfair for those of us who know how to leave no trace
1	educate people about the importance of keeping our nature safe and healthy
4	educate people and encouage them to take their rubbish away
3	educate people better about aking their rubbsh
4	educate people put facilities in. Dont shut peopleout.
4	educate rather than legislate. how about providing areas for people to discharge their waste in a manner that the public finds appropiate
2	educate the way that leaving our trace  is bad
3	educate those who think this is ok
3	educating people should be mandatory. lots of people do freedom camping to reconnect with nature and dont want to damage it at all.
3	education about our environment is more important than our ability to freedom camp
3	education and good policing as well as excessively large fines would create a usefuldeterent.
3	education could decrease detrimental effects while preserving access. most campers do or shouldcare about their environment.
3	education is key. teach people how to be aware f their evironment but freedom camping should still beallowed for those to enjoy and learn about our nature
0	education is needed and freedom camping misses that opportunity
1	education regarding freedom camping is more important.
3	education should be provided on how o camp clean
3	EEI AM NOT SURE IF THIS IS THE PERFECT WAY. PEOPLE WILL CONTINUE DOING IT. WE SHOULD RAISE AWARENESS WHY FREEDOM CAMING IS PROBLEMATIC. AND MAYBE CREATE MORE PLACES WHERE PEOPLE AREALLWED TO CAMP.
4	encourages travel and discovery but needs regulation
2	england shuld of won the world cup
0	Environment is more important than personal pleasure.
3	environmental education is a better solution to foster resonsible use of the outdoors
3	epople should be teach hw to wild camp correctly ( leave no trace): teach. dont punish
4	eroding our rights. most people camp responsibly
1	even though freedom camping is fun i think that people are not very thoughtfull when it comes to nature.
1	EVEN THOUGH ITS FUN FOR US WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT THE ANIMALS WE SHARE THIS COUNTRY WITH.
4	every nz has the right to camp
3	every one shoud be to injog the fresh air and natour.
4	every one should be able to experience nature in the best way possible by sleeping in it. If you take all your rubbish and dont destroy nature you should be allowed
3	everybody are different and we try to keep the environment better than we find
1	everyoe oeyed simpleenvironmental rules we would still be abe to amp something we used to do as childen with our families. we always took out wat e took in. madesure the waterways w used were clear adour open fireswere enclosein arok circleand complety put out on or deprture. if
4	everyoe should take care of the environment and the 10 percent who dont should be held accountable. we all have a right to enjoy who are responsible
4	Everyone deserves freedom. Although There should be harsher penalties for those that disrespect our envroment.
4	everyone deserves somewhere to escape to and if this option is gone how sad for the poorist or most needing.
1	everyone is responsible for mother nature and should cherish it as such. we dont come on to this world we come out of it.
3	everyone should be able to enjoy nature
4	everyone should be able to enjoy the beauty of Aotearoa no matter your class.
4	everyone should be free tomake their own decsion
3	EVERYONE SHOULD BE WORRIED BECAUSE MR MIDNIGHT IS COMING
2	everyone should care  about not care
4	everyone should live in the bushes
0	everyoneis saying oh no dont litter as they drop their rubbish on the ground. i think this is a good way to disincourage littering.
0	everything  has a cost and freedom camping has a hugecost to the environment and native animals and councils too. paying even a little like 10$ a night encorages thankfulness.
0	Everything is Really Happy And Great
1	everything will be ok. relax everyone
4	everyvodyrise up stabd up its tgat tinewe got portugal nexio frabe irabebglabd brazil lets playotball word cuuuuuup workd cuuuuuup wirkdcup world xcup its tie to playfotal world cup ronad uiiiiiiiii poo poo poo poo poo poo im a little furry yei an im a little furry yes i an infuy
4	everywone need to enjoy nature to understand why it is impotant to protect. teach people will bebetter
1	Evil dogs shouldnt kill native bird
0	exited because it lookyou are happy
4	Experiencing the natural environment helps us appreciate and want to protect it more!
3	experiencng nature helps to educate and inspire conservation
3	exploring nature and staying in it gives the understanding why itis so special
4	feedom camping  should be banned.  lt is trashing public areas in Otago and  Sōūthlānd
4	feedom should be  allowedwith self cotainment
3	feel bad that no one cars
4	fgdhdyrtdgdghddhhfdfuygreudgudhhcccdsdasuyuiyefgdyfffgdhggfgf     hgcxzc  B  HD LG dca-&@$@@$@$@$$@7@$-&_@78-:'+:$!!#:$āēūīljvfjgsāhdāgūgfxbhvfgūddg
0	fish are stupid becaus ty getcourt
1	focamping is a fun experience. however western views on the subjct has leaked intoour views on camping. camping in our nature rich bush should eco friendly and if that has to be enforced then so be it. for me camping is about exploring and appreciating the environment.
3	focus on education and enforcement of a few troublemakers rather than banning it outright
1	fredom camping should be allowed but leaving rubbish behind should be illegal
1	fredom campingwould be fine if every one leftnothing behind and buried there compostable waste
3	free camping good.bad campers bad. leave the land as you found it
3	Free camping is a wonderful pasttime allowing us to seeall this amazing country has to offer. Im worried it may be banned due to a minority of irresponsible people.
3	free camping is one of NZ BEST things
4	free camping ppl are more connected wit nature
0	free camping should be banned because people woud just thrw rubbish anywhere they want
1	Free camping should be made harder as long as people don't learn how to behave (  rubbish disposal...)
3	freecamps shouldhave toilets and wastebin and nawareness messages about wildlife toreduce the humans impact
4	freedem camping should not be banned beacuse u are a duck
4	freedm caming should not be banned as it gives us the option to be grateful for our outdoors. To solve this issue there should be a fine for those who leave rubbish.
3	freedm campingis an amazing way to experience the country and if people are taught good practices it can be made sustainable
0	Freedom  camping should definitely be banned.  I have seen first hand and on many occasions the damage caused and poor behaviour freedom camping encourages.  In my view freedom camping devalues our precious environment and causes far greater harm than good!!  BAN NOW PLEASE!!
4	freedom caming gives people a way to explore the country. We need to give people beter awareness of the damage they cause so they can have an overall better awareness through things lke signs and ads targeted at tourists
4	Freedom caming is a fun adventure to experience the outback. Freedom camping can also help children to reduce techonology.
3	freedom caming lets you enjoy the nature. put stricter regulations and enforce penalties for rubbish  etc rather than stopping everyone. many freedom campers appreciate the environment and take care of it
0	freedom campers  have no espect for our environment
4	freedom campers are generally good at cleaning up after themselves ive seen more rubbishdumped bylocals in my area than freedoom campers. hikers urinate and deficate on trails more than freedoom campers do
0	freedom campers are just over entitled rich hippies
4	freedom campers are not the oneswholeave waste. they are here because theylove natureand alsowanttoprotect it.
4	freedom campers are the most respectful
1	freedom campers are too tight to pay camping ground fees so probably are too selfish to care about the environment too.
4	freedom campers care about where they camp and dont create mess
1	freedom campers destroy nz enviroment for doing things they shouldnt
4	freedom campers do not disturb the environment.they love nature. thats the reason why they do freedom caming
0	Freedom campers do not respect the environment. They often deficate leave garbage where they have been. They bring crime and create visual pollution. Their vans are not up to code. Freedom campers ruin the experience for those who follow the rules
1	freedom campers dont tidy upfter themselves and always ALWAYS leave their rubbish beind
1	freedom campers dump waste in the enviroment and ruin our lands
4	freedom campers generally have a love of nature and have eco centricprinciples and values education is keyto protecting wildlife as is the return of dairy lands to nature
3	freedom campers hae less footprintthan fully supportrd tourists
4	freedom campers like nature and dont want todestroy it. thereshould be more services provided like waistbins so its easy to dispose of trach without hurting nature
0	freedom campers offer very little to our economy or environment. rubbish and human waste are often left behind.people that come to nz and visit should in sme way or frm contribte to nz cnservation effrts
4	freedom campers pose far less risk to the environment than local visitors.  campers carry their own toilet and take their own rubbish with then. locals dont have these onboard facilities.
0	freedom campers spoil it for everyone else by leaving a huge mess.
4	freedom campers the true sort wont damage their surroundinds.
4	freedom campibg helps people value the environment when done corretky
3	freedom campig whn you respect the whenua is an incredible way to see the motu on a budget
3	freedom campin is super duper fun
1	freedom camping  is a way for many people can explore if they dont have alot of money to do so it should be allowed with rules in place
4	freedom camping  is something  i do every year.its enjoyable and a great way to teach kids  some survival skills. some   people ruin it for the rest   of us but there should be  monitors in place for them.as long  as everyone is  safe.
1	freedom camping allows humans to take advantage of the environment nd affect it negatively. banning freedom camping would positively affect the environment and let it last longer
3	freedom camping allows many to experience and nurture aconnection with nature
4	Freedom camping allows more people to get closer to nature and thus care about protecting it.
1	freedom camping allows people to be lazy And not held accountable
3	Freedom camping allows people to conect with land and nature in a way they could not otherwise
4	Freedom camping allows people to explorewherever they want to. To solve the crisis of littering you can help educate people instead of just placing a ban. Even if you were to ban it people can still set up a tent. Educating people about the problem can help reduce litter too.
4	freedom camping allows people to travel freely without worry and stess onwhere they will sleep. for cheap or free people can explore any beautiful county.
3	Freedom camping allows people who have an interest in the natural world to experience that world without financialretriction. Encourage and facilitate zero footprint travel
4	freedom camping allows peopleto connect with nature regardless of socioeconomic status
3	freedom camping allows veryone the rightto experience our natural world. rules should instead be put in place to preventlittering and hold people accountable
1	freedom camping although fun will ultimately bring with it waste and possible destruction of native species and the overall environment
3	freedom camping and camping in doc areas helps people appreciate the ngahere.
3	freedom camping attracts tourist which nz relies on. why ban it? why not just tighten rules around it? freedom camping makes touring nz accesable  not just for the wealthy
3	freedom camping brings a lot of tourists thus boosting our economy. without this we would have big struggles in the economy
3	freedom camping by responsible campers should be allowed in New Zealand
3	Freedom camping can be an excellent and environmentally friendly way to experience NZ
3	freedom camping can be done responsibly and allows people of limited means toalso enjoy travelling aroubd the motu
3	freedom camping can be goodif travellers  are  good and leave nothing
0	Freedom camping can be harmful to our environment due to litter and toilet paper being left behind.
3	Freedom camping can help people feel closer to nature which can help them make good choices for the environment
3	freedom camping can help people getting closer to nature. people leaving rubbish must be fined tho
3	Freedom camping canmake the pople more aware of their beautiful nature surrounding. It should not be banned but better reulated and controlled than forbidden.
1	freedom camping creates costs we all have topay
1	freedom camping creates environmental pollution and negatively affects local and national econmies. Nz needs to maintain a sensible and balanced approach to tourism. Damage done is often irreversable costly and freedom camping is a short sighted and an ignorant  approach.
1	freedom camping does a lot of damage
4	freedom camping encourage people to spend tine in new zealand. its inportant to cater for people from a wide range of socioeconomic backgrounds.
3	freedom camping encourages engagement with conservation interest
4	freedom camping for self-contained vehicles should continue because theoretically they should not leave rubbish and human waste behind. freedom camping is a large attraction and affordable means of seeing the beautiful nature that NZ has to offer.
3	freedom camping gives affordable opportunities for exploring our country.  there needs to be a conversation about keeping this freedom while protecting our natural resources
3	freedom camping gives us great connecton to the envrioment
1	Freedom camping has a negative impact on the environment and communities.
3	freedom camping has been around for thousands of years
1	Freedom camping has shown people will pollute the environment without regard leaving rubbish and toilet waste. it is uncontrolled abuse of the environment. Ban it.
4	freedom camping helps low income families explore beautiful nature
3	freedom camping helps t o make this place unique to travel around. ..this risks th few ruining forthe many. maybe a fine or asmall fee to doso instead
3	freedom camping i veryimportant to international backpackers and allows them to see mre of the contry and then they can spend more money in shops and other tourismactivities
3	freedom camping if done right is great
2	freedom camping in camper vans  and caravans with toilets should be able to roam
4	freedom camping is a birth right. where do i park my van!!!??? nēw wōrld cārpārks sūck
0	Freedom camping is a cool idea but hard to manage and easily taken advantage of
3	freedom camping is a fantastic way totravel and experience nature. doing to too much or desructivly ruins the enviroment.
4	freedom camping is a good think for other peoples to have  fun time it is a shame  if other peoples rubbish but is it freedom camping fault or thairs exsacly for  exsample dogs on beaches peoples rubbish peoples werywhere and if you tahe you  dog to the bech you cant because it
4	freedom camping is a good way to let people reconnect with nature. the solution is not to ban it but to educate people properly and from the early age
3	freedom camping is a great opportunity to be outdoors and in nature or totally off the grid. it is a great way to relax or unwind and the opportunity to go wherever wherever is a gift. but peope do misuse this opportunity of being in nature and forget that we have to take care
0	freedom camping is a great possibiliy to enjoy New ZEALANDS lovely nature
4	FREEDOM CAMPING IS A GREAT WAY TO TRAVEL AND CONNECT WITH LAND AND PEOPLE. IT IS A SHAMETHO THAT MANY MISUSE THE PRIVILIDGE GIVEN AND ACT IRRESPONSIBLY.
3	freedom camping is a major problem depending on the enviorment you are in. if    it comes to a conclusion that there are  bins in the area or is set up for the purpose of capming i think it is perfectly fine.
4	Freedom camping is a New Zealand tradition and the poor behaviour by a few shouldn’t be used to discriminate against so many responsible campers.  I believe more facilities should be provided for freedom camping across NZ
0	freedom camping is a part of our culture
4	Freedom camping is a traditional activity that many kiwis enjoy and undertake responsibly. Environmental damage is not widespread and the vast majority of campers take care of their waste.
3	freedom camping is a unique way to engage with nature. it isnt the hippiesin vans destroying theplanet it is poor government policy that allows uncaring and greedy corporationscausingthe damage
3	freedom camping is a valuable way of seeibg our country. educating people as to how to do it respectfully is a better way forward
4	freedom camping is a way of life. dont be a karen!!
3	Freedom camping is a way to promote and sensitize people to respect their environnement. Also the way to determine whether it is freedom campers or random people is blurry. Maybe put some panls from this exhibition (like the hauri o meter to increase sensitization ?
4	freedom camping is a wonderful way to experience nature. without poluting the environment of corse by travilling in a self contained vehicle
4	freedom camping is amazing. its a shane some inconsiderate people dont respect the privilege.
3	Freedom camping is an amazing oppurtunity for those that tangata whenua to the land to offer a place they can stay regardless of finance to reconnect to their whakapapa. its a shame to see this oppurtuniy taken away by others who choose not to respect the the environment around.
4	freedom camping is an excellent way to explore our surroundings. with proper education on leave no trace there should be no problem
0	freedom camping is an extention of white privlege. go anywhere and stay anywhere... such freedom is not extended to all people
3	freedom camping is an integral part of nz history.which should be allowed for residents but not misused by overseas money scrunching visitors
2	freedom camping is an opportunity for cheap holiday however we must protect u
3	freedom camping is an opportunity to learn about nature and learn how to live with nature in a respecfull way
1	freedom camping is bad as it ruins the environment
4	freedom camping is democratic and allows us to enjoy our country whatever our income
1	freedom camping is dirty and doesnothing for theeconomy
3	Freedom camping is done well right now with permitted and restricted areas. Banning it will not stop it... but people will lose respect for the land.
3	freedom camping is fine in self contained vehicles that make surethey tidyafter themselves
3	freedom camping is fun and cheap and good when people are tidy and respectful
4	freedom camping is fun but we have to be much more respectful about te nature
3	Freedom camping is giving me so much!
3	freedom camping is good but people need to b clean
4	freedom camping is good but we needbetter facilities or rules to keep nz tidy
4	Freedom Camping is great to explore the country on a budget and get close with nature. Its so sad that people cant be trusted to keep things tidy and save
3	Freedom camping is great when done responsibly. Littering is a symptom of a bigger problem: carelessness.
3	Freedom camping is great, being responsible & caring for the environment is part of the experience & needs to be taught. 
4	freedom camping is not a pb for me if you respect environment. it is a way of life to learn which tech u how to leave with the environment. for me it is not a good message. the message should be evryone needs to be respectful with the environment; no waste left behind only
1	freedom camping is not good for the enviroment. my viewswould be differant if they cleanedu after themselves
3	freedom camping is nz...i will be saddened if it did not exist. we always look after the environment and cannot always afford to pay for expensive sites.
4	freedom camping is ok if people respect the environment and be tidy kiwis.
3	Freedom camping is one of the few semi-affordable ways to experience Aotearoa. It also should not be the focus over other luxury forms of travel that cause as much if not more harm.
3	Freedom Camping is our only option left to show ur tamariki how to be sustanable and enjoy the raw outdoors. Just look after the whenua and keep freedom camping! OTHERWISE IT WILL BECOME ALL COMMERCIAL CRAP
3	freedom camping is part of being a kiwi
3	Freedom camping is part of NZ culture and should be protected.
4	Freedom camping is part of our right to explore.  NZ Is known for our natural beautiful outdoors  . Lets keep itthat way but make it more controlsothat people respect OUR PLACE
4	freedom camping is possible without hurting the environment
1	freedom camping is ruining our envirōmēnt
2	Freedom camping is sick. whoever said otherwise is just simply wrong. no sins will be commited if freedom camping is unban. dont worry everything is fine. you should not be alarmed at this cause. however you should not be allowed to camp on the road for obvious reasons. kid dies.
3	freedom camping is such a intense way to conect with nature which shoudnt be banned. instead there should be more information about itprovided and only certain areas should be freedom camping free
4	freedom camping is the best camping taking that away would be like taking our freedom away
3	freedom camping is the best way for young people to see nz
4	Freedom camping is to me being a part of nature. only those who direspectthe earth should get banned
3	freedom camping is useful and good for those who ove nature. provide more public toilets in freedom camping areas to reduce waste
4	freedom camping is valuable because it helps you to apprecate nature
0	freedom camping isnot enought respect for nature
3	freedom camping isnt a problem if campers reaspect the environment.
3	Freedom camping isn't something anyone should be allowed to do. Rules and boundaries need to be set firmly for those that do follow the rules and want to explore our country.
4	freedom camping isn't the issue - the problem is people leaving rubbish which is not unique to freedom campers. more education and better facilities with heavier penalties for littering. put cameras up in popular camping spots
1	FREEDOM CAMPING ITSELF MIGHT NOT BETHEPROBLM BUT FREEDOM CAMPERS NEED TO BE AWARE ABOUT THEIR POSSIBLE IMPACT. SO MORE EDUCATION MIGHT BE NEEDE AND SOME COBTROLL OF EXISTIBG REGULATIONS ABD SHARPEN EXISTING REGULATIONTO MINIMIZE ADVERSE IMPACT FROMFREEDOMCAMPERS.
3	freedom camping lets a range of people experience what nz has to offer
4	freedom camping lets u explore nature
4	FREEDOM CAMPING LETS US EXPLORE AMAZING PLACES. IF PEOPLE RESPECT THE RULES ITS OKAY.
3	freedom camping makes you love nature.  and you protect what you love.
3	freedom camping needs more control on where is appropriate and policing
0	FREEDOM CAMPING NEEDS TO BE REGULATED. RUBBISH AND WASE SHOULD BE FINED IN THE TENS OF THOUSANDS
1	Freedom camping negatively impacts our beautiful environment so I am very supportive of the ban
3	freedom camping not only upholds a major part of th econony but also alows a nique way to explore this beautiful county
3	freedom camping offers theopportuntity to discover nature firsthand. it' s also an opportunity to travel around and see places on a low budget. Try to enforce stricter penalties for ppl who leave rubbis etc. Or reward systems like take out more than you brought ( c ollect rubbis)
0	freedom camping ruins the environment and some people are just disrespectful!
1	freedom camping seems to attract poeplo whothink they have a right to freely avail themselves of everything
3	Freedom camping seems to be a very big part of the NZ culture and soul. It will be a great loss for the people of NZ if they are not allowed to do it. Instead cultivate to protect the nature through education.
4	freedom camping should always be allowed. more infistructure should be made to prevent damage from being done
3	freedom camping should be allowed but police more and more education
3	freedom camping should be allowed toinspire people to protect what we have. but people need education and facilities.there will always be those  few that spoil it for others.
3	freedom camping should be allowed. people need to be educated not to leave litter behind. this works just fine in other countries like CANADA NORWAY SWITZERLAND- why sould it not work in NZ?
2	Freedom camping should be an exception. But aslong as they clean up after  themselves.
1	Freedom camping should be banned as alot of people dont knw how to clean p after thenselves
0	freedom camping should be banned it is a good way to get our birds and plants extinct
3	freedom camping should be continued with bins nearby
1	freedom camping should be controlled. its not a right visitors have. they needto be educated on respecting our environment.
4	freedom camping should be encouraged not limited.BUT take only photosand leave only footprints
2	freedom camping should be limited but not banned :)
1	freedom camping should be only for kiwis
3	freedom camping should be regulated so the environment is not damaged
3	freedom camping should be regulated with provision for rubbish and services but not banned
1	Freedom camping should be subjec to more control. Banning entirely is worrying butnot as scareyas the on going growth of freedom camping. when overall population and  campig usewas low little harm was done but with increasing population nd tourism wewill looseourprecious environm
3	freedom camping should NOT BE allowed but regulated camp sites cheaper more accessible & closer together. also need more places for campervans that are fully self contained to park. & people camping need to be respectful &  take only photos & leave only footprits
4	freedom camping should not be band because people camp because they enjoy it and it is something that makes them happy.
2	Freedom camping should not be banned but only  in the circumstance that people start truely caring for the nature  and wildlife.
3	freedom camping should not be banned but rather fine those who litter
1	freedom camping should still be allowed. but campers need to take care of the environment. hope that there can be some kind of compromise.
3	freedom camping should still exist but the govenment and the council should enact stricter measures especially from overseas tourists that typically have less empathy towards conservation efforts
3	freedom camping shouldnt be band as is an oportunity to explore nature and experience the outside instead there shuld be waste control or something
3	Freedom camping shouldn't be banned. Better guidelines and facilities should be in place to cater for visiting tourists and travelling kiwis wanting to see the country. Nz has so much to offer but it's getting harder to freedom camp over the past 10 years. 
3	freedom camping spreads the knowledge of nature
4	freedom camping was my only peace in life if it gets banned ill be very agery
3	freedom camping wher toilets are is a part of growing up in AOTEAROA. But if people abuse it tre should be fines too.
4	freedom campingis fine if you dnt litter
0	freedom campingis gross like my bum
3	freedom capming is great as long aspeople respect the places they go im worriedthat oo many dont
4	freedom cmping helps us to connect with nature
4	freedom is less and less possible. respect rules. keep everything with you and everybody can njoy nature
4	Freedom is one of the things we live for. Too many laws may stop us having anything to live for.
4	FREEDOM IS THE ONLYGOOD THING LEFT IN THIS LIFE
1	freedom is what nz is well known for and why i love it. to experience nature.
4	freedom of travel is a basic right
4	freedom to act for the environment is a basic right. there is more waste left behind in the city centre every single night and that is not banned.
3	freedom to camp should remain a right
3	freedom to explore the landshuld remain free. This freedomcomes witharesponsibikity for kaitiaki
4	freedom. taking awayfrom classic kiwi summer etc andmaking travelling only for the wealthy
4	freedomcampersexploe and appreciatenz. theyshould do it right
3	Freedomcamping itself is not the issue; it's selfish campers. We shoud issue permits for camping and a DOC group should be established to enforce our exectations.
4	freedome camping can be in the respect of the environment. also it is a way to discover the nature. if we dont know what is necessary to protect such as the natur how can we ?
0	Freedon camping creates mess and waste that damages NEW ZEALANDS precious flora and fauna.  There are plnty of camp grounds for people to stay on all over the country. People should use these instead.
1	freedon camping is great to experience the out doors as long as  people clean up their mess and respect the the wild life
3	Freedon Camping is one of the best ways to experience NZ
3	frnot the solution... freedom camping should be allowed but campers should care more about our holy nature
2	gabe ch te papa kareb dum bum
2	gay peolpe are stranger than Stranger Things
1	general mindset changed in the last years. maybe we learned a bt.
3	get ev vans recycled or bio degradable packing. can be made better. not get rid off
4	getting people to experience nature in a posatve  way will encourage future generations to become pationate about protecting it. Introduce heavyfines for those not following leave no trace principals. commercial logging and aggriculture do far more harm. dont scapegoat campers
4	give them more infrastructure. nz is for everyone.
1	Given that enough affordable campgrounds are provided I like the idea and think it helps protect nature.
0	giving back to our whēnua and protecting our native wild life and plants
4	global warming etc is a conspiracy
1	Go with the intent to support the enviourment.
3	going to st marys next year with out my intermediate friends
3	government controls too much.responsible freedom camping is fine.
3	govt should focus on creating more jobs and healthy lifetyles
4	govt should provide more rubbish and toilet faikities
1	great and all  but  i hope that instead of gttibg d f t all tgeher fndngher as to sov tis ssue
3	great way to get in touch with nature
4	greatopportunity for young travellers. we couldnt afford the stay in new zealand. a small charge forfacilities okay. but no profit. let people learnand feel free.
4	grrrrr grrrr ruff ruff im a fury and a dog btw i took a sh** in the bush
1	happy that i m migh be col
1	happy things hapen to me and i think they are fun. also people invite me to their birthdays
4	harsher penalties for people who litter etc
3	have a negative efect on the environment if you dont take your rubbish with you
4	have campsites around nz forfreedom camping
0	He kaha nō te taupuni hereko.re ki te hamuti ki te taiao me te kore kohikohi i a rātou rāpīhī.
4	he mea nga koa me nga pureri
0	he paruparu no etahi tangata.. tee aro ratau ki te tiaki i a Papatuanuku
0	He taonga tuku iho ite taiao.  Ko tēnēī ko tō tātu haepapa matua.  Te haepapa o ngā uri o te ao hurihuri.
1	hello how are u i am under da watar pleez help
2	hello im tyrone n i like playing basktball
1	Hello PS5 i think asshima lov
1	help to reduce the amount of litter
1	Helps to protect endangered wildlife and their habitat
1	hence forth. this community is riddled with poisinous minds and darkly ways. we must put our wildlife bretheren first. for we are of no importance. # shakespeare
1	hi daddy ilove u so much
2	hi demon slyer better than darling in the franks
1	hi how is yor day? Mine is terrible. I AM really bored.
4	Hi I'm a good friend of Immy lolz
1	hi mom i loveu so much
0	HI MY NAME IS HARRY AGUIRE IM GOOD AT SOCCR
2	hjhhgbgfgfbvgvffd vvgv v vbgf vcbgffhyhdjj fbcjfbfhdjbJHSB BZHhsj yvbh  xcgg zvc vxcdwhd fkhūx6$4$_+-_8_-'_$$$$$$$54$$&āgsdhdgrxhgdyygydyfyfggff cf xū
1	hoeful. yes i am. hopeul today  let the mudsic take you away xx
4	holasoy dora can u makeme xcvxxvxvcxfxcxcxxvv
4	hold the people responsible for their actions with huge fines as apreventative means. camping is a way to get to know your environment  plus show and teach our future generations   the importance of our local bush and environment
1	hope that it brings awareness tothepeople to take care ofthe env
1	hopeful  . i am hopeful abut what to come in he world
1	hopeful a balance can be struck
1	hopeful they wont go thru wth it cuz freedom camping is fun
1	hopefully e can get to a place where people respect the environment enough that we can reintroduce freedom camping.
1	hopefully it will help our environment and wildlife thrive! :)
1	hopefully less distruction of habitats will result
1	hopefully we can find a betterwaywith betterinfistructuretosupportpeople to enjoy nature
3	how are people supposed to connect with nature if we ban one  of the best ways.
2	how dis it going to help
4	how else do you see and enjoy nature
1	humans and nature can coexist as long as we remember that Earthis not ours. We are just borrowing it
1	humans are  dirty animals and shoukd stay in their houses
3	humans are also animals that need wild time . but we need to learn to care better for the land as we do so
0	humans cannot be reled upon to take care of the earth
0	humans dont respect nature well enough
0	Humans have a huge impact on the environment but many people do not know or do not care. Laws need to be in place so that people cannot contine to destroy the environment just for their own pleasure. There are other more eco friendly ways to enjoy nature than free camping.
0	Humans have been showing bad behaviour. Freedom camping should be banned. should use camping grounds but perhaps make them more affordable so people can take responsability about the enviroment.
4	humans need to connect with nature
4	Humans need to experience the freedom of going where they want. To explore. To learn. There is more rubbish dumped around urban areas than rural. People need to be taught respect and appreciation of our environment not banned from iy
0	humans scareaway birds so if humans settle everywhere birds have to live in fear that humans will kill them. so goog
3	humans should get to experience ōūr nātīvē wīldlīfē
0	humans specifically the west and descendants have already destroyed many ecosystems. we must protect what is left
4	hvmfhczgsjskksdshdkmsjdsd xjhksbdkkhffsbbffs sf sgihdscjhKH  dcsh k  sducfdguudyfsgy
1	i  believe that campers should clean after theirselves.   leave the place the same way you   found it.
1	I  DO  NOT WANT ANYTHING TO DIE
2	i  thibk caming s a great experienc  that brings people coser to nature. i hope that people learn to respect the environment in the future so people can continue to enjoy freedom camping
0	i  think  we  should not go to school now AYAYAYAYAYAY :)
3	i  think that we should go camping but  we should not harm  the animals  living there .
2	I agree and disagree. Since i also dont camp i dont really care but i really love nature and animals so...
1	i agree lol vote green party
3	I am a responsible freedom camper
4	I am angry against these people whodid not respect the environement
4	I am angry because people are killing our native animals
4	I AM ANGRY BECAUSE WHO DO THEY THINK THEY ARE...MAKING OUR WHENUA LOOK LIKE SHIT
0	i am at my home town
4	i am beyond angry with this situation
3	i am currently travelling by freedom camping right now and i take care f the environment and love the freedom of freedom camping. i love the environment but i would be sad if it was banned
0	i am excited becuse im cool
0	i am excited for illegal activitied
0	i am excitied becsuse iam going to the park
0	I am exited because it will protect the enviroment for many years
3	I am feel... I am very feel
1	i am grteful and do it well
0	i am happy to be here
1	i am hope full this will stop them littering and creatibg waste
1	I am hopeful as that might reduce the amount of waste and litter left after in public areas
1	i am hopeful banning freedm camping will help to rejuvinate the environment
1	I am hopeful that it will positively impact the environment.
1	I am hopeful to see the environment better cared for. However I am sad that freedom camping cannot continue with people being more respectful of the land.
1	i am hopeful we can save the birds as they were here before us
1	i am hopefull because peoplewillnot think the same
1	I am no sore what think exactly but it migth be a good idea
3	I am not excited for thisidea because i love camping. But i also love the enviroment.
4	i am pretty much angry and against this  because people should be able to camp freely
0	i am really excited about this cause i think this idea is super duper cool
4	I am very angry that this is trying to be a policy because without the idea of freedom camping. This will mean that the homeless will have no home at all and that is not fair. That is taking human rights away and that is inhumane
3	I am very worried that the effect of campers leaving rubbish behind is ruining are local widlife and i think that we should have some camping laws and    think that all camp sites should have a sign that reminds them to pick up their rubbish and belongs before they leave the camp
3	i am worried about dangerous rivers
3	I am worried because of the fires they can make a HUGE impacet on are planet. The smoke makes the anamails sick and has the same effect on me.
3	I AM WORRIED THAT LESS BACKPACKERS COME. WE NEED BACKPACKERS FOR FARM WORK OR ANY OTHER WORK
3	I am worried that some people might go bonkers about no freedom camping but I am also worried that if you let freedom camping to be allowed. People might leave rubbish behind or people might hurt nature and etc. So be a good sport about this desicion
3	i believe that freedom camping gives people the opportunity to enjoy our beautiful country but am worried that some people ruin it for the rest and dont respect the land. it should not be banned but more education and solutions
1	I believe the more people who considerthisland to be their's willtake advantage of this. This newproposal will help keep plastic outofour oceans and forests.
1	i believe thy should ban freedom camping in certain areas. freedom camping is good for people who have nowhere to   stay however there are those who disrespect it.
1	I believe we MUST care for our home.
1	i belive ts only natural toprotec nature
4	i camp for food to survive and worms uwu
2	i cant see how freedom camping is bad fo nature. litraly just camping!
3	i chose worried because caing in nz is a beautiful experience but it depends on if the people tenting respect and take care of the land and nature around it
2	I depends if they are being resposible
3	i did a doodooand it was really embarrassing t was so smelly andmushy
2	i didnt reador this i just picked
3	I disagree because people who camp learn to respect nature more and connect with it
4	i do freedom camping and i take all of my rubbish wih me. its sad that some othercampers are not doing the same.
2	I do not cere becauseit is not my probel
2	I do not know how freedom camping afects wildlife
2	i do not know what that means
2	i dont  now what that is
1	i dont agree with freedom camping. Peopleshouldstay in cmpinggrounds with appropriate facilities and support the local economy
1	i dont agree with freedon camping because it hurts the envoriment and nature
3	i dont believe freedom camping is the issue. the issue s lack of government support in those areas.  open freedom camping but with rubbish disposal areas and 24/7  toilets mske it eco freindly
2	I dont camp ever and the only time I do is in school situations so I dont really care much
2	i dont car who this irs senbs     i         am nt pay tax
2	I dont care abt the nviroent
2	i dont care because i dont camp
2	i dont care because it will b e betterforthe enviroment but thbn will be lesstourists
2	i dont care because its ok
2	i dont care because ppl wnt to camp and its fun but it is also bad for the enviroment so i will be happy with either choice.
2	I dont care cause it is not going to harm the enviroment but on the other hand i hate freedom camping/campers
2	i dont care cuz i donk care
2	i dont do camping so i dont care
2	i dont freedom camp so it doesnt effect me
2	i dont freedom camp so itdoesnt effect me directly but support most things that protect the environment. i think a button that said supportive would be a better option
4	i dont have money so i have to freedom camp
2	i dont know anyhing about it
2	i dont know enough about it
2	i dont know so maybe some of it?
2	i dont know what freedom camping even means lol
2	i dont know what freedom camping is
2	i dont know what freedom camping is
2	i dont know what freedom camping s or howit effects anything. hence i dont care
2	i don't know what i'm doing
1	I DONT KNOWI JUST PUSHED IT
0	i dont knw and i dont care
3	i dont like  camping i olny have been camping one time
2	i dont like camping       put regulations around it.
2	i dont like camping so i dont care
2	i dont like camping. city girls up
2	i dont mind justto save the envroiment
2	I don't really care about yes and no. I care about love.
2	i dont really care as ong qas we can still camp
2	i dont really care because its your choice but just dont do something bad to the earth we want our to be healthy.
2	I dont really care because ive never gone camping and also because peole die by camping but people love camping so that makes me i the middle zone anyways i think humans need to stay where they evoluted to live and dont disturb the native anials. :)
2	I dont really care because only the few spoil it
3	i dont think campng and iving in natre is the issue here. its the plastic and wste tat comes from large corperations
3	i dont think freedom campibg is the problem for that
3	i dont think freedom camping has the biggest contribution to harm the environment compared to other activites.
2	i dont think it is a problem
1	i dont think it necessarily needs to be banned but more facilities should be provided in high use areas to prevent people causing problems
1	i dont think it should be banned but i do think stricter rules should be put into place. people lack the respect oflooking after our country and thats because thats because they can
4	i dont think it shuld be banned just make sure to give enough facalities for rubbish disposal
3	i dont think this will go down well with alot ofpeople but need solution to minimise waste anf save th environment
4	i dont wabt for people tobe bannedfor freedom camping because its justsad
4	I feel angry that freedom campers get the blame, let's educate, instead of removal. This applies to so many other like driving culture 
3	i feel as though the we should stead increase the amount and availablity of waste facilities such as  rubbish and recyling bins.
0	i feel excited because it will have a positive inpact on theenvironent
3	i feel freedm to accomodation is essential. especialy for those who lack financial access to costly accomodation.
1	i feel hopeful because this might help with reducing plastic
3	i feel like banning outright could potentially increase illegal camping as people could just. disregard the ban and risk it all for the fun. i think this could cause a public outcry of some kind
3	I feel like its imppossible to stop with out having too exterminate humans entirely
2	i feel like people like torrist shold be abke toe explorle our contery
3	i feel that freedom camping is an imortant thing to keep around. however i feel it needs tighter regulations around it to stop people ruining it for everyne.
3	i feel that we could extict a lot of animalsif we dont ban freedom campibg
4	i feel worried for the animals
3	i feel worried for the genorations ahead
0	i got to go on a plane
1	I hate it when people litter
2	i have know idea what it is
2	i have n opinion and i amarobotindisguiseheheheheheh
2	I have never really been fredom camping and if people do pick up their rubish its fine
3	i have seen rubbish and poop where no toilet is. the official places looked o .k i only met responsable people
0	I have seen so many disappointing things done by freedon campers. We camp all the time and believe campgrounds are the only way to go.  I believe the NZ economy will benefit by this decision also. There is a lot of free stuff in NZ already. Not everything needs to be.
1	I have seen Wanaka and waterways getting polluted with toilet paper lining the banks. Need some sort of action to keep campers accountable. Such as must have toileting facility on board or at camping location.
3	i have serious concerns about the environmental impact. but worrya ban willhave nonomic impact
1	i hink we should doeverything we can to help
3	i hope instead people will learn to respect the evironment so we can all enjoy it
1	i hope people will not hurt theenvironmen
1	i hope people woud stop throwing rubbish
1	i hope that  people recognise what theyare doing when they freedom camp
1	i hope that it will work out beaucause i like the idea
1	i hope that people improve thier manner bere we ban freedom camping
1	i hope that poeple would channg
1	i hope that somthing happensto help the envirment here
1	i hope that this help bring us one step closer to co-egsistince.
1	I hope that this issue gets resolved
1	i hope the govt bans freedom caming
1	i hope they will fid a good solution
1	I hope things getting better with that
1	i hope this gets far NOT lol
2	i just dont care where people camp
1	i know a park were because of freedom camping  the police had to sweep the park clean of  sharp obgects that was littered
4	i lick terds but then i get sick
3	i like adventues to go where i likecoz its fun
3	i like animals add me on snap
2	i like bals there juicy andhave alota crrrream
4	i like campibg and i dont littr. strixter rules for littring
3	I like camping so I think only the worst reuted spots shoud be closed.
4	i like free camping i was just touring south island in camper f we were driving late at night wewould just stopafter enough it was helpful
3	i like freedom camping. it's good to connect to nature
1	i like happy pop corn for birds
4	i like it and it is fun
1	i like nature but i als like camping and though its nice i go with camping
2	i like nature its yum and good for the enviroment. so if yur its mother naures woeld be thankfull. amen yayayayay.
0	i like this because i am a nature nerd/ geek
4	i like to pick my bum
0	i like to see others get very annoyed about it
4	i like to sniff my bum
1	i love annimals i dont want them to die i just care
3	i love both freedom camping AND nature. maybe better rules around it could work
3	i love campibg and its frustratibg that people cant respect the land
3	I love camping and I don't think otherwise it would be unfaire forthose who don't litter.
4	I LOVE CAMPING AND I THINK THAT WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO CAMP NO MATTERWHATTTT
3	I love camping but dont want a mess
3	i love camping in nature and  disconnecting from electronics.
4	i love camping so NO....NEVER NO BOO BLAH BAHBAH
4	i love camping so pls dont
1	i love campng; but i know to many who abuse the land. having restricted camp grounds and no free camping could help reduced the issue
4	i love caping it is so fun
3	I love freedom camping and dont think it should be banned but I like the environment too
3	i love freedom camping.the majority of campers respect the land so t should not be banned
3	i love freedom campingAND take my rubbish always with me
0	i love this place so much
1	i love you sid rico dad gem alia pran
4	i lovefreedom camping it brings travelers in and keeps people outdoors im here traveling nz because of freedom camping
4	i m a freedom camper and respect the enviroment. freedom camping is an nz right!!!
3	I m using this campgrounds. there are nice and let us see how nature can be. maybe we should ask a licence to use them and respect the natureas we can sleep there. i m worried because it would mean more big campings and i m nt sure it s a solution. free camps let us spread. thank
2	i need to do a no. 2
2	i never go freedom campin so i dont see how its relivent to me.
3	I ORDERED A BREAKFAST WHERE IS IT DID YOU EAT MY BREAKFAST I AM WOORIED THAT SOMEONE ATE MY BREAKFAT OH NOOOOOOOO
4	i own a van. please dont
4	i own a van. please dont do this to me
2	i really dont care at all
2	I REALLY DON'T CARE IF MY FAMLIY DISLKES ME
3	I really enjoy getting away from it all at the spur of the moment, and this would impact my camping options. But I understand why this is a solution, since unfortunately not everyone is respectful and caring about our environment.
1	I really hope everybody understabds that freedom camping is not just bing free t roan around because. You might her yourself or mother natue so I have hop that e do the right thing
3	i really like freedom camping lots of people can not afford camping grounds and they live in their car were are they supposed to go
2	I really like the idea of banning people from camping becaus its good forthe enviroment.685 ALL DAY
3	i really like to be able to choose where to   cap
1	i reallyhopes this happens beacause itkilling wildlife
1	i recognise thatwhile i practice leave no trace principles not everyone else does abd it is importabt to protect the environment
3	i skerd because ole the peapel don t care of the planet and animals we don t have a chose sory
4	i spent 5000 on a van to freedom camp in
1	i thibk if you are locals and respect theenvironmentitcan be okay. we should be able to travel and experience our land. although i think there should be more rules and restrictions to make it betterfor our planet
1	i thibk is bad cs imban alpha wolfer uwu ad like if u db thibk its goood i bbliey u. no good.
0	i thibk it should be banned to conserve the land for future generations
1	I thibk that it should be managed. I am hopeful that management willsolve the problems it creates. Ive seen the mess they leave behind and dont want disrespectful people having free rein and access without caring about what impact they have.
4	I thik people should be alowedto camp as long ās īt  dōēs nōt ēfēct thē ēnvīrōmēnt.
3	i thin its a great way to experience new zealand aslong as the rules are set
2	i thing it is sometimes okay but thay need to protect the enviroment
1	i thing we need to rethink how we do freedom camping. Have it but not completly free
3	i think  there shoud be  proper places for people cam
1	i think a few ruin it for most people
4	I think about you all the time
1	i think after years of intensive freedom camping  we are starting to get policy in p lace to ensure it i s now a little more stustainableabd socily and enviromentally considered
0	i think all kararehe are super coooooll
3	I THINK ALL PEOPLE NEED TO RESPCT OUR LAND
4	I THINK BACKPACKERS DONT HAVE ENOUGH MONEY  TO PAY FOR NATURE
4	I THINK BANNING THE FREE CAMPS WILL NOT LESSEN THE AMOUNT OF TRASH PEOPLE LEAVE BEHIND. WHAT ABOUT WE LOOK INTO SOME OTHER OPPIONS. WHAT WE CAN DO TO PREVENT PEOPLE FROM RUINING THE NATURE ?. EG. WHATIF FREEDON CAMPS WERE PROVIDED WITH SUFFICENT EQUIPMENT LIKE RUBBIS BINS etc.
4	i think camping allows people to get in touch with nature and ultimately protect it more than damage it
4	i think camping is a nice way to get closer to wildlife unless you want it exticnt
4	i think camping is fun but its not good to leave rubbish and other things behid
0	I think camping should be limited because it could hurt the enviroment
2	i think camping should not be banned
3	i think campingisawonderfulway forpeople to connect withnature and learn to appreciate it
0	i think campings fun and exciting because you get to explore other things you didnt know about.
3	I think educated campers are more respectful to the environement than some people using other types of housing.
1	I think education is the wayforward. To remove this option is to destroy the enjoyment and envolvement of people in our natural environment
1	i think everyone who comes to new zealand should respect our lovely country.we dont destoy ither countries when we vist them.
2	i think free camping is fine
4	i think freecamp its a really nice way to visit this beautiful country
3	i think freedm camping if respectful of the environment can bring people closer to nature and have a greater appreciation of the bush. but i thībk īt should be regulated in at risk areas
4	i think freedom caming is cool
1	i think freedom caming is stupid just go to a campsite like the rest of us and stop ruining the environment to fuel you rsuperiority conplex
3	i think freedom camping helps connect people to nature although penalties could mitigate negative impacts
4	i think freedom camping is a good way to see nz. more resources are neededthough
4	i think freedom camping is a great thing for tourists
3	i think freedom camping is a kind and generous thing that aotearoa offers so i dont want to see it go. but i care about our natural spaces more
3	i think freedom camping is a really good idea for visitor and residents because some people have trouble finding housing or don't have the means to rent. Also educating campers so that they are aware if their impact on the land can help everyone
1	i think freedom camping is a wate of our environment and weshould do more to protect it
3	I think freedom camping is fine as long as there is personal accountability. I dont think banning is the way to go
4	i think freedom camping is good.
4	I think freedom camping is ingrained in the kiwi way of life and the purest form of exploration our country can offer. Despite the fact it infringes on our BORAct and freedom of movement it also takes the ability of camping for the lower economic groups of society. 
4	i think freedom camping is the best way to explore your beautiful country. mabey you could make fewer but bigger areas where people is allowed to freedom camp?
1	I think freedom camping provides important and essential opportunities for people to connect with and learn about nature; so i am hopeful that education can improve freedom campng so it can continue
0	i think freedom camping should be band because it is bad
1	I think freedom camping should be banned insome areas. If peope fredom camp they might trample habbitats of endangered or recovering spieces. Camping is good fun but if you don't take the right precautions (like cleaning your gear and being careful where you setup) you're not ok
3	i think freedom camping should be continued. people just need to take more care of our country
3	i think freedom camping should be kept to promote affordable travel and investment in autearoa. And ther are more contructive and inclusive solutions to eliminate waste from our environment
4	i think freedom camping should be permitted. There should just be bigger fees for leaving rubish.
1	i think freedom camping should be regulated to minimise pollution
3	i think freedom camping should not be band bc its a free contrey
3	i think freedom campingcan existwithmore awareness aroundrecycling and waste management as well as morerubbish bins and more recyclable products.
3	i think freedom campings regulated should be the future.
4	i think freedom campng shouldnt bebanned bcause its saves money as some campsitesare really expensve :)
4	i think freedome camping allows us to apreciate nature and nature directly improves our mental health which we all need to boost
1	i think further ollution needs to be stopped
4	i think humans should stop controlingthings like this.  we are not that important nor here for long enough to worry about shittingin the woods
2	i think i need a nap
0	i think i really love my vacations wellington and love the company of my brother and sister in law
1	i think i will be the best sister in the world
1	i think if it helps the environment improve and endangered animals are able to strengthen then i hope it works
3	i think if people can clean up after themselves  this could be ok!
2	i think if they are not hurting the enviroment it is fine
1	i think if we have freedom campers they should pay an environmental tax suchas they do in many european countries. this would encourage possible campers to look at other sustainable travel options ..as freedom camping wouldnt be entirely free...an put money into more loc
2	i think if youre responsible to drive you should know how to clean up after yourself
3	i think ifthere were bins putin place  itwould save alot of issues withpeople caming
3	i think in one hand people must know their impact and respect the nature. in other hand ministry must educate people and include restruction in bad situation. area for camping must excist
4	I THINK INTERCTING WITH OUR WHENUA ON A PERSONAL LEVEL DEVOID OF SECULAR AND MONETARY INVOLVMENT WHEN DONE IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT FOR OUR UNDERSTANDING  OF THE MAURI OF OUR WHENUA AND OUR CONNECTION TO IT
4	I think is an important nature experience.
3	i think is good to ableto e njoy the nature like we used to. however it is our responsability to protect it and not damaged it
4	i think it  should  be  allowed  with rules in place
3	i think it better to educate more the peopleabout  the weakness of the environment but in new zsaland when we go in a lot of free camping thereis no toilets no trash and its pitty becausemajoritary people are responsible and care about the nature so dont cancel the camping
1	i think it can be a big enviromental impact
3	I think it can be dangerous
1	i think it could be fun
3	I think it is  important for nature appreciation
1	i think it is a good idea for the cause of the situation so others dont have to deal with other people rubbish. looking after our  environment will increase a more healthier atmosphere for animals and humans in this God given earth. nga mihi kia pai to ra
4	I think it is a greatway to explore our country.
0	i think it is a small price to pay to protect the environment
4	i think it is awsome we can camp
1	I think it is bad for the environmnent
3	I think it is better for the environment if there is no freedon camping but some people may not like it.
1	i think it is good for the environment
1	i think it is good then protege animals
3	i think it is good to have freedom campings
1	i think it is important to protect our nature and our earth. we only have one and shuld care more about it than hobbies of people. we should not disturb the animals our leave rubbishin the nature just for our own pleasure
1	i think it is not essential
3	i think it is very sad
3	i think it means tht experiencing nature becomes less accessable to young kiwis.
0	i think it might makethe world a better place for the sea animals
3	i think it needs to be managed
1	I think it shoud be limited but not banned completely. It's important to give people the opportunity to see the beauty and value of nature but we have to be resonable about how much we expose nature to our bad habits.
0	i think it should b banned cuz they ellv behind rubbsh and litter
4	i think it should be allowed so people can explore our beautiful country
3	i think it should be aloud for  familys to go canping and have fun where ever they like i am worried because i love camping with my family as well as my friends
1	i think it should be banned because we dont have theinfrastructure for it abdin other countres it is banned so itshould be here
1	i think it should be banned. especially if people leave rubbish.
1	i think it should be limited
3	I think it should be regulatednot banned
4	i think it should come with stuffed crust and bhdbchdcbhchchhchhchcchchchchchchchchdshuhddudsugdduffsvhffrvufrcfdhbcsjhcsdhvhhvhvvvhadsvhsdvdvfdffduvsdshvhdhdbsahbhsbshbahssabhusassaudsavhxsvhjsasasdasdHKSSAGSAGSGGSDDFFXXFFXFFDFDFDFDFDFSGSGAGSGSHSSSVVvzvvvsssvhahvxvsavshs vhshvuh
3	i think it should go on but more petced
4	i think it should not be banned because it helps u make freinds learn new things and its really fun
4	i think it shouldnt be bnned because a lot of people dont have a home sothey cn freedom camp for shelter. do not ban it
1	i think it sould be banned people have the right  to camp anywhere they like
0	i think it will help if it was banned
0	i think it will help our inviroment so i am exited
0	i think it will help the children of today build a better future.
0	I think it will help the environment.
1	I think it will help the environment.
1	I think it will help the environment.
1	i think it will work out in the end
0	I think it would be awesome for camping to be banned!
3	I think it would be more efficient to educate people rather than forbid them to discover nature and live in harmony with wildworld
1	i think itis a nice idea to protect the enviroment. maybe its possible to create special places for campers
0	i think itis good tostop freedom camping!!!!!!!!!!!!
3	i think its  a great way to explre nature
4	I think its a big part of NZ and shouldn't be banned. It should rather be controlled better and rubbish/dump stations should be provided.
0	i think its a good thing for it to be banned
0	i think its bad because birds and animals  have to move from their homes and leave and if you have a fire then it might be a hazard
1	i think its good that we are making change
3	I THINK ITS GOOD WITH FREEDOM CAMPING
0	i think it's important to preserve our environment so we have to make sacrifices
1	I think its importantto look after our enviroment as it looked after us for millions of years.
4	I think its just a wat to charge people for nature
3	i think its new zealand s duty to provide rubbish bins and facilitate travelers recycling also by providing clean facilities. it is shocking to constate the state of facilities and the lack of rubbish through the country
4	i think its sad how theydo that in our country
0	I think its the way to go  tino ora i te whenau
1	i think its worth paying a small amount so theland is taken care of
1	I THINK ITSHOULD BE ALLOWED IF YOU CAN PROVE UWOBT LITTER
3	i think itshould be banned in some areas but not all. it does alot for the economy in regards to tourism but also endangers our home...
3	i think kiwis should beable tocamp resposible in own country
4	I think Labour and the Greens can kiss my ass and I think law-abiding kiwis should be able to go camping with their friends and family yes.
4	I think lots of local people litter and don't treat our enviorments correctly. I lot gets blamed on freedom campers. I know freedom campers who pick up other peoples rubbish
3	I THINK LOTS OF PEOPLE  DONT CARE ABOUT OUR INVIORMENT SO ITS INMORT TO CARE
1	i think me and my annoying brother will have a amzinag school holidays
4	i think me and ryous should get back tg
3	i think more education nature respect would be a better idea !  prevention first :)
1	I THINK MOST PEOPLE PARTICULARLY INTERNATIONAL VISITORS LOOK AFTER OUR WHENUA. ALL REGIONS/councils should have camping ambassodors
1	i think nature is more beauiful when we interact with it intentionally
3	i think nature should beaccessible to all people of any econmic ststus as long as they can respect the land
4	i think new zealand is a country for travellers and theres no other way to fell this close to the nature
4	i think newzealand should stay a free country so we should allow fredom camping but hevier fines can be introduced for littering and unnecesary destruction of the enviroment
0	I think other solutions rather than a blanket ban could be explored
3	i think ou are the pooof my DOG
1	i think our environmentis most important andneeds to be protected. but that is onlya very small part...industry. plastics. emissions. fuels. way of life. every bit matters -  we need more sustainability
3	i think people are getting more and more thoughtful about being environmentally friendly and sustainable towards the beautiful nature
4	I think people make camping do that to be near the nature and often respect nature. I have seen many people who stay in the hotel not respect nature during walk.
1	I think people may camp in an animals home and destroy it
3	i think people need to be better educated about the damage they can unintentionally do and how to better coexist with nature.
4	i think people should be able to develop a love of nature by experiencing it first hand
3	i think people should be able to enjoy the wilderness for free
3	I think people should be able to experience our environment by freedom camping but they should be taught how to respect and care for it so that other people can experience it just the same.
3	I think people should be able to travel freely
4	i think people should be free to camp as long as nature is respected and good infrastructure is provided. giving access to nature is the best way to protect it
2	i think people should camp if they want
4	i think people should clean up after themselves because their actions are impacting all.
3	i think people should respect the environment
2	i think people should take their rubbish home with them & dispose of it properl.
3	i think people will eventually come tothe realization that its in everyones best interest  to keep the land clean so that all can use and enjoy it safely
3	i think people willavoid camping if you have to pay and thay will sit at home produsing more rubish.
1	i think places have already started banning freedom camping
3	i think sleeping on public ground peacefullyis fine.
1	i think society would benefit greatly from reducing. reusing. recycling.
1	i think society would benefit greatlyfrom reducing. reusing. recycling.
3	i think some people cant afford campsies and so will not be abletogo camping anymore
4	i think some people care more about themselves ratherthan theplanet thathas given us a home
0	i think tat you should get a permit to freedom camp
1	i think that  this museumis cool!
1	i think that all native birds deserve to live
1	i think that all people  should be deucated before camping and know only to leave your foot print and nothing else
1	I think that although its fun to go pich a tent in the middle of nowhere I think its better to stick to the camping grounds that are for us cause they have actul loos.
2	I think that as long as you don't leave any rubbish or anything which wasn't there before and leave the space exactly how you found it, it should be okay
1	I think that banning freedom camping is a good thing.
3	i think that bannng t all together is not a great idea  finding other solutins to improve the situation as well as keeping the activity alive
1	i think that birds should die
4	I think that camping is a cool thing. why should it be banned
4	I think that exceptions should not be taken as a rule
3	i think that freedm camping shuld have boundries
0	i think that freedom campers litter with human waste which encourgages others to also litter in the wild
1	i think that freedom camping can be done well. We just need toleave the place as we found it.
1	I think that freedom camping helps morepeople learn about nature
3	i think that freedom camping is a big part of experiencing new zealand and would negatively affect many people
4	i think that freedom camping is a way toget ur mind off things and to see cool nature u cant see in otherplaces
2	i think that freedom camping is vvvvvveeeeeeerrrrrrryyyyyy fun
1	i think that freedom camping should be banned because by camping where-ever youlikeyou are disruptingvnimals and plants.
1	i think that freedom camping should be banned because it allows people to ruin nature and it can cause danger to wild life animals and can cause water pollution.
0	I think that freedom camping should be banned people harm the enviroment
3	I think that freedom camping should not banned but should be tightly regulate say a fine if they live rubbish behind and cameras in some of the most used areas.
4	i think that freedom camping should stay because we have the freedom to  make new friends look at nature and enjoy time away
1	I think that freedom camping shouldbe controlled since people can pollute the environment
3	i think that freedon camping shouldn't be banned but i think there should be negative consequences for leaving a mess. for example fines/bans
4	i think that if a freedom camper leaves rubbish or anything other than tyre tracks then they should be held acountable but we should be able to sleep were we need.
4	i think that if there is no freedom camping then people will be mad and i think that sinc i am 100 years old i dont care
0	i think that if this happens it will be cool
1	i think that if we as a collictive workhardwe will be able to form a better future
3	i think that if we don't care for our enviroment then we might die.
3	i think that iflaws are placed and nforced thenn freedom ampingsshould be allowed
1	i think that in the future people will know how to change it
3	i think that is a great way to see country places in NZ. Most freedom campers are well behaved and give back to the towns they stay in.
3	i think that it good but it limits where people can camp and thats no good we should all have freedom
1	i think that it is a amazing idea
1	I think that it should be banned because it is harming animals
4	i think that it should be banned becuz if you start a gas and u accidenly light a stick on fire thenu blow but it cobs back the fire will spred to trees and bushes so i think it should be banned
0	I THINK THAT IT SHOULD BE REGULATED
1	I think that it would let the nature restore
0	i think that its a good idea becus peple
2	i think that its fine to freedomcamp
4	i think that its god to go abd see nature itself while sharibgtheenviret with bew zealabds native ani
3	i think that it's too bad that people can't be respectful... that leads to this kind of rule that reduce liberty. but maybe now because of climate change we have to reduce our liberties. it's a complicated question
4	i think that not all freedom campig shous be banned but more strictly monitored
4	I think that people are now destroying the enviroment more than ever just to mke useless things which I thik iscomepletely stupid and harming enivroment TO MUCH!
0	i think that people cqare not enough about environement and feel not responsible for their own garbage
2	i think that people dont mean to reck the nature iintentionaly they just like to spend time with whanau (:
3	I think that people dont take care of nature good enough
1	I THINK THAT PEOPLE MAY CAMP IN AN ANIMALS HOME AND DESTROY IT.
3	I think that people need t clean up after they camp
4	i think that people should be more educated about the enviroment and capsites should all have bins. as someone who is currently camping it has been very hard to find somewhere to put rubbish. more bins provided across the country would stop people littering as much
1	I THINK that people should look after the Earth better or all of the native animals will be gone!
3	i think that peopleshould be more responcable for themselfs
0	I think that Te Papa is very fun!
0	I think that TePapa is AWESOME!
4	I think that the environment should be protected at all costs because the environment is also our home too.
4	I think that the final boss of ohio is trash at fortnite
4	i think that the goverment should put up a rule that says Iyou do not put your rubbish in the trash you will get a fine.
1	i think that the motivation behind this movement is definitley right but freedom camping is so enjoyable it will be difficult to give it up
2	i think that the people agree with freedom camping should be allowed to camp but the people who dissagree( which is probably a majority) can  just camp at camp grounds
1	i think that there might be a change
3	i think that there should be demcracy and limiting this lessens it
2	i think that they will not care about te trib and go by thereself
0	I think that this is a good thing because then the wildlife can reclaim their land and wont eat the rubish left by us.
1	i think that this needs to become a problem and someone needs to do something. ithink this is a probem that we as a contry needs to dealwith
1	i think that this will be greatfor our environment as well asprotectibg our animals
4	i think that this would be bad for the enviroment because it can scare the ntive animals away and they can lose their hmes
1	I think that we need more bins and toilets
1	I THINK that we need to protect whatwe have left.  People do respect unless theyareinformed
1	i think that we should banned camping because some caampers litter
1	I think that we should either impose stricter rules or just ban it
3	i think that we should kee camping but people will have to add some rules
0	i think that we should leave the animals alone in theirhomes because you wouldnt want a weird lookng creature barge into your home especially if the creature is bigger than you and the plants can be poisonous if yu canpfreely
3	I think that we should let the freedom camping 'cause people who lives in camping cars sould not pay to stay sleep somewhere.
3	I think that we should try harder to pick up our rubbish but I do not think that freedom camping should be banned. It is fun and very soul lifting it is also calming and educational.
1	i think that when freedomcampers come onto natural lands they leave behind a environmental footprint that is badfor the environment if we banit the environment wont get destroyed
2	I THINK THAT YOU SHOULD DO LESS CAMPING IN THE WILD
3	i think thatfreedon canibgs cobtributing to our litter problem
4	I THINK thatpeople need thefreedom of outdoor āctīvītīēs bēcāūsē it has a healing affect on your body and being enclosed is not that healthy!
4	i think thatppl leave behid waste and rubbish regardles and banning freedom camping wont make a worthwhile difference. it would be more beneficialto focus on plastic reduction
3	i think the answer requires nuance. it has a lot of benefitsbt do agree it should be properly regulated
4	I think the country is too beautiful too put up such restrictions. Instead fines for polluting should be higher and people shoud get educated on how to camp sustainably.
0	i think the environment is impotant and ushumns shouldnt desriyi
1	i think the envoiroment should be a better place . the grass wont die
4	i think the giverment make too many restrictiins already. education is key.glyphosate which is in roundup and 1080 cause huge problems as do plastics. freedom caming is a beautiful way for people to truly apreciate the enviorment and taking tie away from screens and the fast pace
4	i think the government should stop attempting to control behavoir and focus on educating peopleto enjoy the environment
1	i think thepreservation of the earths natural wonders andresources is rewadng for mankind as well as the other equally important beings in nature such as wildlife and biodiversity
4	I think there ar bigger contributers to environmental degradation than a few irresponsible tourists. Like irresponsible multimillion dollar industries.
4	I think there are better ways to rotect the enviroment to prevent people from camping where they wish
3	i think there should be campingspots where people have to pay for example 10 Dollars per vehicle and therefore are provided with bins and toilets so its still possible to travel with a small budget
4	i think there should be cctv in all parking areas and number plate reader so this can be monited and big fines or permits that can be follwed
3	i think there should be free/cheap dedcated places to camp in this beautiful nature
0	i think there should only be  dedicated areas for camping to protect the environment.
2	I think they can camp! WHY NOT?!
4	I think this   because it ruins our enviroment
3	I THINK THIS IS A NEGATIVE APPROACH. I EXPERIENCE NEW ZEALAND AS A VERY CLEAN COUNTRYAND CONSCIOUS PEOPLE. IF YOU POINT OUT THE IMPORTANCE OF KEEPING IT CLEAN AND HAVE A HIGH FINES YOU CAN STILL ALLOW GOOD PEOPLE TO BENEFIT FROM NATURE
1	I think this is good idea because people will leave trash and just this little change can affect the enviroment a lot! Thats why its a good idea.
0	i think this is really exiting and a good idea
0	i think this should be implemented ASAP
1	I think this will help natve nz wildlife thrive in a totaly undisturbed environment.
1	i think this will keep nz clean and protect the native birds
1	i think this would be a very good iniiative. i just hope that eople will respect it and do their part to protect the environment
0	i think thoughtless touristspolluted our waterways a long time ago
3	i think thre is a way for freedom camping to bring people closer to nature
4	i think tht peope should beableto have with native bush andbirds
4	I think to freedom camping is the only way to really experience the true beauty of this country. Of course everyone needs to stick to the rules!!
0	i think today is the best day ever because of cailean
1	i think we ae starting to appreciate the enviroment more than our selfish needs
3	i think we are out of time
3	I think we can regulate it on a better way. But its important for the people to live in contact with nature as it always been
1	i think we can teach the freedom campers better behaviour. Besides  MBIE are not known for independence in their surveys...
0	i think we cant relieon people to respect nature by not polluting it
1	i think we hould help as much as possible
1	i think we need to be careful of our footprint in areas of low use to keep them pristine.
4	I think we need to educate people more so we can all enjoy our nature without detrimental effects.
1	i think we should all try to be a little bit hopeful and maybe and things might go you way
4	I think we should be able to Camp
4	I think we should be alowwed tocamp whever as long as we are mindfulof the enviroment
1	i think we should do whatever we can to protect the environment.
1	i think we should help our planet
1	i think we should look after our nature
1	i think we should only camp in  places were theres lees animals
0	i think we should put up more rat traps :)
1	i think we should respect our environment.
4	i think wellmanaged freedom caming brings people closer to nature
4	I think you need to not punish the majority for the behaviour of a few. give people the responsibility to act in a way thatprotects the environment and facilitate this with education and facilities as needed.
4	i think you should keep freedom camping cause its fun
3	I think...there's not a one rule. Freedom camping as it means is fine. It's the ones who don't care. Be a shame to ban and responsible people suffer and loose the enjoyment 
0	I thinkall caming shoul b banned because camping sucks
4	i thinkdestry is minupilive and a fat whore
0	i thinkpeople  need to beabletorespextthe  evvirnment
3	I thinkthat education can solve this if there is signs of freedom camping causing pollution.  New Zeaand is a beautful country and feedom camping allows people to explore its nature
1	I thinkthat the numbers of people engaging in freedom camping without proper gear and facilities is unsustainable.
1	i thinkthat ut should be banned in certain tyes of places bt we still shoukd be abe to camp in somesafe envuroments
3	i thinkthatpeople shouldick up their rubbish and not leave litter. freedom camping isa amazing way to embrace natre ifyou are able torespect it
1	i thinkthis because it i wong to heart the environment for yourown  pleasure
2	i thinnk people shld b ducated instad
4	i thnk that while we need to be extremely careful there should be some places to freedom camp. this way as long as peope are respectful we can all be happy
4	i thnk they should know how toclen up after themselves
3	i tnink we should respect th invorment the way it respects us
3	I travel around NZ by freedomcaming myself and its a great opportunity to appreciate and experience this unique nature. We are all grateful to do so. Thats why we never leave any waste.
3	I understand why this is being considered as  oo many tourists have behaved poorly but it's sad for those of us doing the right thing.
4	i wanne be innature. but of course i have to carryall my rubbish out. nature is for everybody. we just need to behave in a good respectful way.
0	i want all people to  help animals
3	I want the environment protected butdont want to lose the freedom
0	I want the future gneration to live in a healthy enviroment
4	i want to experience ebvitonment and showkids so they are passionate
1	I want to have the ability todoit. but it is better for everyone to not. the environment comes first
0	I want too see all our amazing things
0	i wish i had a big penis
3	I WONT BE ALLOWED TO CAMP  AT A CAMPGROUND TOGO TRAMPING
1	i wont get sick alot next year
0	i would hope freedon caming could still exist with apropriate facilities provided
3	I would like everyone to have the opportunity to experience nature here.
4	i would like to go out with friends
3	i would like to retain access to wild places in nature at an affordable pricepoint. if people cannot afford to be outside in nature they cannot connect with nature therefore they will not see the value in conserving it.
3	i would not be here bc all other ways too expnsive for a travler like  me
0	i would rather have a healthy environment than people happily stuffing things up.
3	iam here by camper from germany and love the nature. also my 6 years old doughter learn so much from here
4	I'd CELEBRATE life's simple pleasures. I                                                APPRECIATE- OH JEEZ! It's a CIRCUS! J-j-j-j-just keep moving!
4	ID LIKE THE FREEDOM CAMPING TO STAY BUT  EDUCATE  PEOPLE HOW TO LOOK AFTER THE ENVIRONMENT
1	idk what freedom camping is so i just put the one everyone else put
4	idont see the problem if there are toilets and people take theirrubbish with them. it uses less resources than hotel rooms for accomodating guests
0	if  you lovethe planet yōū mūst tākē prēcāūtīōnstō cārē fōr īt
1	If banning it preserves the environment because people cant follow simple rules and be considerate then i am all for it
4	if campers are hed accountable for their waste and take proper actions to be environmentally friendly then theres no reasonwhy they shouldnt be able to enjoy it
3	if campers respect the land we shoud allow freedom camping. look at way to teach and educate campers
3	if done correcty it is an awesome way to explore feel and respect the nature.
1	if done right it may positively impact our environment
4	If done sympathetically it encourages people to respect the environment
4	if done well it provides many tourist dollars to be sent on conservation efforts
3	if evryone was resosible and leave onlyyour footprints and litter or human waste
4	if free campers leave no trace itsfine. do not disconnect people from neature!
4	if freedom camping is banned  then too should any camping or tourism. ban travel too
0	if humans arent in nature we dont care about it so accessibility is moreimportant than local ecosystem quality
3	if humans take waste with them there is no issue
1	if it can help and change the actual situation...
1	if it helps we have to give it a try
1	if it helps. we dont need to take more from nature
0	if it is negatively impacting the environment it should be banned
0	if it is not banned than it will be bad
1	if it protects the environment then i'm in for it
0	if it wasa perfctwordeveryoewiuldikx uaftrbthrdekvsadevrythg  woukd be fbe. butit bt. bd peoplelittr. sofeedm cmpoing must be stopped
0	if it will help our wildlife we should do it
4	if managed properly like in whangaei it provides a unique opportunity to our guests annd also ourlower income whanau... our beautiful country should be shared by all...it is our duty as gaurdians to ensure it is kept clean....thats what rates for
3	if more rubbsh and waste infustructure were addedit coukd work
3	if no designated spots avaikabe people oud cmp anywhere  .make sure theres bins and toilets and trust the people
3	if only people could learn to respect theenviornmentand leave no trace. Freedom camping would be such a sad thing to loose.
0	if only people took responsibility for their footprint there would be a chance but unfortunately some few ruin it for everyone
4	if peaple go camping they will sart to earn something about it and starts tolike and apresheaded it. so they will start to protect the nature thts very inportend. peaple and nature shoud live together
3	if peope camp responsibiy they should be alowd. though i realise this may be had to police
3	If people are camping I would hope they cared about the enviroment. The idea that people dont--to the extent of needing to ban it--is worrisome.
1	if people are encouraged to clean up after themselves and help protect our environment
4	if people are responsible it should be allowed
0	if people cant be responsible then they should be prevented.
4	if people cant go outdoors how will they learn new things
3	if people dont put wste it is okay
1	If people have enviromently equipmenthen it is okay but if they do not then they need to buy some. Be good for planet earth so we can live longer.
0	if people how respect to the environment all good but so many freedom campers do not
0	if people leave their rubbish in the enviroment and stuff they obviously are evil little buggers abd shouldnt be on this planet
1	if people were better behaved and left nothing but footprints it would be better. but our reliance on unprepared and unguided tourists in growing numbers gives me pause. still freedom camping is amazing. better than a ban would be a mandatory course and license.
4	if people were responsible and respectful while freedom camping it is something that coukd continue
4	if peple ar e resonsible there is no problem without freedom camping there will be less tourists and they keep the country going
4	If peple would just use common sense and clean up after themelvs it would be fine. certain people ruin itfor the rest
3	if ppl are responsible and look after the environment it shuld be allowed
2	if selfcontained there is no problem. locals leave a bigger mess
2	if the campers respect the nature is no reason
2	if the campeur take care it  will be ok
1	if the freedom campers culd pick up after themselves it'd be fine but rn they cant be trusted; can they?
4	if the issue is waste control then deal with that issue directly.
3	If the people at thecamp site were to make a fire. And it could cause a big fire and could damage the environment. Lots of camping sites have a rule were there are no fire at all.
1	if the person is near facilites or has their own then the it  is better as long as they clean up after themselves
1	if there culd be moreeducation that wouldbe good. otherwise there should beon the spot fines to deter people from behaving badly
1	if there is a problem we should fix it
3	if there is punishment when you leave behind trash it should be okay again. via DNA Tests
1	if there were areas set asde forcamping less people would freedom camp
3	if there would be no freedon sites people WILL go elsewhere to camp. so its best to keep it in certain areas. there will alwaysbe tourists and NZ needs them. so why not make it convenient for both.
3	if they dont clean up they shouldnt be allowed
1	if they respect environment  it  will be round for future generations
2	if u want to do it do it if ur agents it dont be  kare let them be
3	if we all respectthe environment i belive everyone should have the right to experience and enjoy all that nature has to offer. itsimportant for us all to be able to learn and experience nature first hand
1	if we cant protect it with current measures we shouldban what harms it o r teach peoplet to care for our home. honestly im just glad its a discussion
3	if we keep banning it tourists will do it secretely. that will NOT help the environment. do better control of what poeple are doing. if they dont respect their surroundings give them a hefty fine!
3	If we make a law to help the enviorment and make sure people dont leave litter then it will be ok.
4	IF WE START TO NOT ALLOW PEOPLE TO CAMP EXPLORE AND ADVENTURE WE WONT HAVE AS MUCH FUN
4	if we stop freedom of movement and exploring.. when will it stop
4	if wetakecare of thenature freedom camping is cool and you can see incredible places
1	if you cant clean up after yourself you dot get to camp! its not hard
3	if you clean up ater yourselves tgere wont be a pblem g
3	if you don't allow people to experience nature wwhy would they ever apreciate it enogh to care hathappens to it?
3	if you learn to appreciate nature you are more willing to protect it
4	If you managed the freedom camping better this would not occur.
3	if you want to freedom camp you should be required to donate to organzations that protect freedom camping areas
4	if you wantto you nshould be allowed to fredom cam
3	Ifeel people should pay moreattntion while they freedom camp
4	ifthe campers are respecting the nature it should be accepted
1	ihope we can recover this world soon.it is so amazing and this may be our last chance at life
1	IIfreedom camping is a fun way for tourists and locals alike to see NZ. But the issue arises when people aren't responsible. They leave rubbish and don't care for the environment as they go. It either needs to be banned or hold stronger restrictions/control to protect our nature
4	iisif trash is the issue and a lot of trash comes from packeging maybe we need to change somethig about those instead or change the trash system meaning diffrent cans or hows its collected also freedom camping brngs a lot of tourists sonething that nz economy is depended on
0	I'm  so excited that the Horse has qūīt
4	im angry that people dont care enough about nature that a ban is being considerd. we should be able to freecamp without impact if everyone did it properly
2	im cool awesome and nice ;-)
0	im excited  because my grany is here
0	im exited becuase the invitronen is cool
3	i'm extremly scared for the future of the individual Imogen!
3	im feeling a little worried. i dont go camping i just have anxiety. actually i went camping in year 5 and it was the most uncomfortable experience of my life. they made us use towels instead of pillows.
4	I'm gonna KILL that thing! Mugman NO! It's a BABY! It's not a BABY! It's EVIL................
3	Im having nghtmares because of MR MIDNIGHT everyone here needs to RUN FOR THEIR LIVES
1	Im hopeful that freedom camping will be banned if it has a negative impact on the environment.
2	im neutral because there is a bad and good side to each opinion
4	im not angry but i dont want it banned but there needs to be better education and facilities and managemnet to minimise impact on the environment
3	im not angry or woried i am calmly opposedto the idea. why only negative options to oppose banning freedom camping? humans belong IN NATURE
2	im not much of a camper
2	Im not really to worried about this but i dont think there should limits
4	IM REALLY MAD BECAUSE OF YOU
3	im scared of campers if u know what  i mean
4	im soooooo angry at these campers
0	I'm super pumped for Waitangi day! I'm going to the Whanau film night near Te Papa!!
2	im sure how to feel   about this.
3	I'm very worried about the damaging affects this can leave on our local forests. We should create some strict camping laws to make sure our native animals and wilderness is left unbothered.
3	Im very worried that campers feal like they can leave plastic at campsites instead of putting it in the rubbish i think that this should be taught in the local schools of wellington and that veryone should respect this and go check out city dentist clinic my mom works there
1	im with my friends and there allwase bymy  side
3	im worried about people not having homes to live in so they have to camp in public places.  theydeserve to live somewhere.
3	IM WORRIED BECAUS THERE IS TO MUCH VIOLANCE AND WE ARE GONNA GET HURT
3	im worried for the backlash that will occur.. i also dont think this is by any means the key solution
3	IM WORRIED THAT CAMERS WONT PICK UP THEIR RUBISH
0	imexsited because then i sleep on dung beatles
2	imma be the king of the pirates. on the grand line
3	important to get in touch with nature
3	important way to connect with the land and natural environments. more education on leave no trace. banning freedom camping would leve the country to be less accessible for people from all backgrounds. more appreciation respect and education
4	impose fines on peope dig that
3	impossible for The ham of freedom campig is insignificant compared to other environmental harm from agriculture or even highway litter. Banning freedom camping would be blame shifting to poor people and make it even harder for new zealanders to travel our own country
4	In a motorhome we are able to see more of the rural countryside
4	in all my time freedom camping it is the locals Ihave seen who  leave the rubbish.
4	In my opinion banning freedom camping won't improve the current circumstances
4	In my opinion freedom camping is a wonderful way to explore New Zealands beautfiul nature. To ensure rsponsible freedom caming it would be crucial to provide enough facilities to safely get rid of your waste. Right now there are limited opportunidies to do so
1	in my opinion freedom camping is ok if everyone takes care and leave nothing behind but unfortunately not all are thinkig that way. more people less care...because the most think somebody else can do it. also we are not all on same education level how to live sustainability
0	in my opion we should take care of our world its good because wecan have more air and be able to see more animals and people would survive because there will be no fluds and we will have a life ofnature and wewill be free from all thhe horror and pain for animals and we willhave
1	in myperonal opinion.. i lke to camp in my spare time ...but it is worrying how they treat it... but ceebs
3	in roblox horrer games scare me and sometimes its funny scary
1	infrastructure should be built for the Te Araroa walking trail and many more areas need bathroom failities. when you need to go you need to go.
1	inmpacts outweigh benifits and alternitives exsist
3	instead of a ban they should limit the number of people allowed
3	instead of banning. i think the gov could come up w better solutions. such as more bins or fines
3	instead we should educate how to responsiblyfreedom camp andleave no trace
1	interested on how they enforce te policy
3	Introducing certification with a nominal fee and good practice would still allow people access to the environment whilst reducing likelihood of littering and damage. This would also raise more funds for the DOC.
3	intrusion into wild spacs and also effcts of itter and human wse
1	Irresponsible freedom camping leaves a huge mess for local communities and environmental authorities to manage
3	is o ne of AOTEAROA biggest assets. it shoul be controlled better but keep it
0	It  is  bad  because  of  fire  hazard
4	it allows exploration of the beautiful country. done sustainably it is a good thing
3	it allows great freedom for travelers when it is respected
3	it allows people to see more of our beatiful country
0	it brings more harm than good
4	it brings travellers into the country
3	it can be a good thing if done responsibly
4	it can be done in a responsible fashion and this can actually prompt people to take better care for the environment
3	it can be good if people take care of the environment
1	it can be good to allow all people the chance toexperience nature
1	it can impact the world negatively
1	it cause wild fire and leave trash in the wild life
1	It causes a lot of environmental damage.
3	it causes a lot of pollution
3	it coud be damaging for some people thatdont havemany choices
0	it could be cool to go freedom camping
3	it could be done but not sure everyone would treat our nature in the right way
1	It could work as long as there are some campsites.
0	it damages the environment and pollutes water ways and leaves rubbish around including uncontrolled defecation which spreads disease. today is covid left uncontrolled it will be ebola next. filthy and disrespectful. im an eho and frredom camping should be banned.
1	it depends how aware people are of the situation. school has a great role to play.
3	it doesnt address the root cause of the issue which is harmful waste
2	it doesnt statehowmuch freedom campers negatvely effect the enviroment
2	it dont matter as long as you dont poop and pee in the bushes pick one bush to do your buisness its your choice on which bush ok?
0	it favours only a small proportion of the visitors. there must bereasonable alternatives though.
1	it felt so nice and claim
3	it fosters a sense of carefor the environment
1	it gets people in touch wuth nature and more involved
4	It gets people oudoors into nature where they learn its value.  Dont let the few spoil it for the many.
3	it gives you a pace of ind but you should clean up after
4	it gives young people  or any persn that likes tavelling the perfect chance to see the  country and dont spent to much money. i think it needs better ideas how prevent bad things from happening bt surely NOT BANNING it
3	it has enabled meto fall in love ith nz. maybe better controlsaround it if needed. i was kways responsiblea bout it
1	it helps conserve the beautiful enviroment
4	it helps people conect better with nature
3	it i think that it is an ok idea but alot of people enjoy and love the outdoors so this plan may indeed restrict the amount of happines they recive by going outdoors. if this plan goes ahead then i feel alot of people will be mad. even though this plan is to protect the wildlife
1	it is a beginning. many freedom campers leave no trace but so many leave dirt and danger to wildlife.
3	it is a dum aproach. we are nature. some people mess up and we cant stop that.    we should encourange people to spent more time in nature. for many of us it will be a healthy and healing activity.
1	it is a good idea because it ruins our environment
3	IT IS A GOOD WAY TO SEE WHY CONSERVATION IS SO IMPORTANT
4	it is a great reason to come to NZ
3	It is a great way to access natural places and learn and grow appreciaion for nature which can lead to stewadship of land. It needs to be respectfully with leave no trace.
3	it is a nice way to travel and be close to the nature
3	it is a perfect way to discover the country. it should be more regulated
4	it is a problem for backpackers
2	It is a relatively small number of camps
1	it is ac good idea to stop the littering
3	It is always the minority that spoil it for the majority
1	it is an  oppurtunty  to connect with taiao. however it isnot possble if  we do nt take care of our rubbish and damages to pspa
1	it is an important skill . camping isnt in a motorhome or clumped together in a campground
0	it is anyway overcrowded and missused
0	it is bad and it should stop
0	It is bad for the environment and also local business  eg campgrounds
0	it is bad.people do not look after the enviroment that they are in and  pollute our country
4	It is because we make freedom camping that we know well the nature and that we protect it . not everyone is pig !!!
4	it is better to educate people to a better runderstanding but punishing all campers
3	It is better to teach people to take away their rubbish than to forbid everything.
1	it is dangerous because u dontknow if its safe
3	it is finef you take ur rubish with you
4	it is fun and i dont   hav mony
4	it is fun and you can enjoy it with your family .also you can be eductuder about the out doors.
0	it is fun thers games and we can draw and it is fun to watch the things and jokes and hear thngs
0	IT IS FUN TO BE AROUND AND MEET NEW PEOPLE. BE ACTIVE TOO.
3	it is fun to go camping
1	it is good because otherwise the polution will choke animals
1	it is good for  the people
0	it is good for conservation efforts
1	It is good for the environment.People can't really kill more plants.
4	it is good for tourism and creates enjoyment.
1	it is important for generations in the future to save the environment in the present
3	it is important that the people can contact to the nature.
3	it is important that the people can freely access the land. in my country Uk we have very little public access to land and instead it is mostly controlled by private actors. if freedom camping is banned in nz then we should talk about who is allowed to control it instead.
4	it is important toconnect with nature on ourownterms not through the fucking gonvernment !!
3	it is importantto be able tospendtime in theoutdoors. to much restrictions may decrease peoples understanding of our preciousnature. at the same time we all learn totake care of our own garbage.
1	it is importnt to protect the environment
4	it is not fair to stop freedom camping that has been a nz tradition for a long time.
4	it is not guaranteed to work
4	it is not the campers who are the problem  its the teaching of how todo it that islacking. most seious campers love nature and seek to protect it the small minority of random pollutors givenature loving freedom campers a bad name
3	it is not the camping that is the rblem but he behaviour of people. many freedom camp responsibly.. we ned education and ways to deter poor behaviourthat impacts the environment
3	it is not the camping which is the problem but inconsiderate campers
0	it is ok to camp but don't leave your rubbish
3	it is okaslong as itis  not producing litter or desroying the environment
3	it is only a few that abuse the luxury of freedom camping and they would probably do it anyway. most people respect the spaces available
4	it is our rite to be close to nature.if respected  it wontbe damaging. focus on greater enviromental problems
4	it is peoples resonsibility to care for  the environment
1	it is positive change firthe environment
0	IT IS REALLY FUN & I LOVE IT
0	it is right people shoudnt be able tofreedm camp
3	it is ruined by the minority
4	it is sad for people who respect the nature and just want to enjoy it for free
3	it is sad that we lose our own freedom due to our own behaviour.
3	It is sad to ban wild camping... that people are not educated enough to take care f their environments. hikers such as myself know better and i feel that those people punish us by leaving their rubbish behind
3	it is sad to think the people who lovenature cannot take care of it
1	It is sad we cannot be trusted to freedom camp but I am hopeful it can be regulated whilst still affordable. And that this will spread a message about caring for papatuanuku.
4	It is so disappointing that those who want to exercise their freedom to camp can't care enough about their surrounds. Their behavior means legislature that prevents good people from enjoying what should be a right.
3	it is so great to experience nature so it should stay allowed
4	it is so stupid to take away people's rights
3	it is sometimes fun and you have lessscreentime
3	it is such a good thing to visit the country and to be surronded by nature. easy to anyone.it's very sad that because of some people (again) we'll all loose this privilege.and i am sorry to say that i feel the traveller is not the only one: moto&4x4 on the beach.spraying.plastic
4	it is the best way to enjoy nature. but of course leave notrace
4	It is the best way to explore the nature as long as everybody leaves the places cleaner than before.
0	it is the rightthing to do
4	it is the wrong approach to ban it. what about all the people who do it responsibly? and all the nz locals who explore this way?
0	it is very cool. i learn new things.
3	it is very nice to have nights into the nature.  reduce problem for the environment thanks to campers education
4	it isnot that hard toput you rubishaway and use public toilets or travltoilet
3	it leavs a mess  that kill our native wildlife
3	it lets me see less nature
1	it may negatively affect tourisn but in the end our natural environment is ar more important.
1	IT MORE INPORTANT TO PROTECT THEN INVIROMENT
3	It negatively affects responsible campers. Freedom camping is a great way to travel and I will not mind donating to causes for outreach and cleanups.
3	it prevents a closeness to nature if banned. holiday parks are useful but are a more artifical experience of nature
3	It ruins the "rugged and untouched" reputation.
3	it ruins the environment and can endanger native anmals
4	it s said we have to think about banning freedom cmping because of iresponsible campers that leave rubbish and destroy the nature they campin. IT SHOULD BE THE OPPOSITE. Human and nature should live clos together in a symbiose and humans should not be the parasite.
4	it seems arbitrary to only limit the things poor people mightdorather than so manycapitalist ventures thatdoso much more harm. no coincidence here.
4	it shold stay with more options for people campers to make good choices
3	it shoud be somehow controlled to protect the enviroment.  bigger fines for those who destroy or leave behind a mess. our world is beautiful we should all be able to enjoy.
3	It shoudnt be banned. But people leaving behind rubbish and caught should be fined.
3	it should always be free to enjoy. fines should be imposed instaed
3	it should be a right  . big corporate makes it too pricey otherwise. let everyone see this great country not just the rich
4	it should be allowed and controlled
3	it should be allowed but monitored when possible and offenders who leave rubbish should be unished
3	it should be allowed but more rul esand regulations in place. Designated areas in place with bins etc.
1	it should be allowed but numbers limited in some way.  The people of NZ should be allowed to freedom camp but not tourists just trying to save money.
3	IT SHOULD BE ALLOWED BUT PEOPLE THAT LEAVE THEIR TRACE SHOULD BE HEAVILY FINED.
1	it should be allowed but regulated
4	it should be allowed it is fun
3	it should be allowed so people can experience the beauty of NZ
4	it should be allowed. i freedom camp respectfully. we arent al bad people
4	it should be allowed. only scumbags dont take their rubbish
4	it should be alowed as long as the area is left in the same conditon. huge fines if not
3	it should be available for reasponsible people.
1	it should be banned as people especially tourists leave litter and stuff that harms the enviroment if you want to camp go to a camping ground
1	it should be banned because its there home not ours and we shouldt mess withit. they make our world feel alive so lets keep itthatway
0	it should be bannedso it will reduse waste.
3	it should be controlled but not banned. There should be toilets and rubbish collection all the time to avoid pollution
4	it should be encouraged but consequences made clear for those who disrespect the land
2	it should be legal for new zealanders
4	it should be managed better. not banned
3	it should be managed but supported
1	it should be managed. we want to encourage people to enjoy visiting aotearoa but be respectful
1	it should be more rules and only possible when a urgend manner
3	it should be regulated but not banned
1	it should be regulated with clear expectations so we can have both
1	it should be to protect the environnemnt from stupidity
1	it should have limited place for camping.but restrict people to camp incetain area.
1	it should hopefully cut down on waste in the enviroment
3	it should just be better regulated
1	it should not be banned but regulated properly to protect our wildlife
3	it should not be banned how ever people need to be educared in remving there rubbish to appropriate areas. leave only foot prints
4	it should still be available to nzers to enjo our beautiful country
0	it shouldbe banned t keep our pristine enviromnts safe
4	it shouldbe cntrolled better bylazy well aid councleworkers
3	it shouldbe supervised but not banned. it would be verysad for campers who care about the environment to lose this amazing right
3	it shouldnt be banned bcase is rad
4	it shouldnt be banned be cause it would be judging people
3	it shouldnt be banned but closely monitored so that the environment is still protected
4	it shouldnt matter unless they cause harm to the environment
1	it shows care and respect for papatuanuku
1	It shows that we are mindful of and care for our environment
4	it shuld be enjiyed abd the ines who trash it shiuldnt ruin it fir everyone elce
4	it shuld bemore controlled but nt banned
1	it shws people aretaking the problem seriuosly
4	it souldbe allowed but with stricter fines for misbehaviour
1	it soundsl ike a good idea but i wonder how long it will take for people to stop
0	it sucks like who evenenoys it
4	it takes advantage unfairly of nz
3	it takes away the feeling of beeing free as a bakpacker country its one of the most amazing thing NZ can offer
1	it will be betterfor the enviroment
0	it will be great to have a dedicated space for camping to regulate the spread of human waste and rubbish
3	it will be much harder for a lot of people to discover and experience all of Aotearoa.
3	it will exclude responsible campers who wish to enjoythe natural environment
0	it will get better over the years:)
0	It will have  less of an impact on our environment.
1	it will help a littlt but here are bigger fish to fry
0	it will help the anials sruvivle and keep them safe from poching
1	it will help the invirement a lot
1	it will help to protect nature
3	it will impair perception of nature
0	it will protect more native areas
1	It will reduce the waste left behind and also keep our forests clean.
1	it will save the environment and preven people from  trowing rubish to the wilderness
3	IT WILLHARM NATIVE WILDLIFE.IT IS  A BIG OPPERATIONTO CLEAN IT ALL UP SO IF WE NEVER DOIT IT WILL BE MUCH EASIER
2	it wont make a diffrence bro
1	it works if other free options are offered and unfortunately there are not enough for (ūnrēsppectful) people to do the effort
3	it worries me my kids wont enjoy  the new zealand outdoors like i did as it will become a white luxury and no longer be free
4	it would be a shame. let pepole discover the outdoors but they ned to have repesct for it beauty.
0	it would be better for the environment
0	It would be good because alot of campers are careless about preserving nature.
3	It would be much better if environmental awareness grew and every camper simply took and recycled their rubbish.
3	it would be sad for people to lose this connection to nature. Police it better. Teach 'leave no trace' in schools.
1	it would be so amazing ifwe could protect this abilty for futre generations. this might involve education and facilities
3	it would only get worse. the government should provide more public facilities for freedom camper
1	ithink it shouldnt be banned but there should be alot more restrctions
0	ithink that ther are too many people do not care or think it does not matter and woul not be willing to correct their ways
2	ithink thes seig mob is better than the blcks but everyone hasan opion
1	ithink this idea will establish more ecosystems for our enviroment which allows animals toseek more places forshelter food and more
1	itis very damaging to the envionmrnt
3	its a fantastic way of engaging with natral nz if respected
1	its a geat opportunity for everyone on a budgetto travel
4	its a ggod way to explore the country
3	its a goddamn hobbyppl. ido think waste should beredued tho. maybe weighing stations?
1	its a good dea but people shuld be able to camp in a resposible way
1	its a good idea to preserve nature
1	its a great thung but we need more public facilities to support people todo it well and without impacting nature
4	its a great way to connect with nature
3	its a great way to discoer a country
4	its a great way to encourage youngsters from overseas to workand give into the economy. it could be controlled better and stricter rules inforced for clearig up
4	its a great way to see nz
4	Its a great way to seethe beautiful country on a budget. to ban it would be gentrifying.
3	its a great way to seethe country for people with less money when done responsibly
3	it's a matter of educating people on how they benefit from a clean environment which is key to tourism
4	its a matter of freedom. whilst responsibility should be enouraged and enforced; to outright ban it would be tyranical and prevent the growth for love of the environment. Education is key.
3	its a nice way for people to responsibly enjoy nature
3	its a part of the culture and whats point in protecting all the beautiful land onlyto restrict campers to commercial sites.  why restrict the peoplewho appreciate the land the most
3	its a reactive reaction too a small group
1	It's a shame- but sacrificing an activity a small number of people enjoy is worth it for the greater good. we make similair sacrifices all the tine.
4	its a shame when people leave rubbish behind. they ruin the experience and the opportunity of the next person. however  thats no reason to ban it. people who do not comply with the rules should be bannend.
1	its a smart idea because lots of people dont actualy carewhat impact their actionshave on the enviroment. this should help to increse the population of naitive wild life.
1	its a step in the right direction
0	its a very whiteperson with dreads thing to do
4	its a way fr peopleto discinnect from reality
3	its a way to conectwith nature
3	its a worry asitwillimpactonthe restfthe beautiful birds animals fishland whchis already havinga prblem surviving
3	its about education to do it with minimal impact. is it better to have more camervans on road?
3	its about eduction not simply banning something
3	it's alarming to learn that camping canbe hazardousforthe biodiversity while it should have a smaller impact than living in houses which consune a lot more energy/ petrol and water to buil and the to live
4	it's an attack on personal freedom
3	its apart of nz identity but probs will help the environment
4	its bad  because then  kids  dont  learn  about cmping.
1	its bad because littwering and fires
3	its cool to camp in random places abd descvernew things
1	Its disgsting and bad for r country
1	Its easier for us to giveup the free luxury of camping without paying to ebsure our future can enjoy the luxury of life
4	Its easy to look at a freedom campsite and complain about waste. But most campsites are an awful lot cleaner than the side of any highway or city street. A lot of campers clean beaches and areas where city folk gather and mess in their weekends.
3	its evryones planet  but people need to leave it as they found it
3	its fantastic to trvel your beautiful country and stayon wonderful places for free. makebetter easier ways to trow away garbich. we wanna help to keep it clean but at some places its difficult
3	its fine to camp outside its no hurting anyone
4	its foolish to thing this is the only time toose areas are impacted. seems like people in cities who know little about living in a way that is healthy and free painfully limiting us as we try to live our lives if you
4	its fun and i dont leave behinde rubbish
0	its good for all native things
3	its good for people to appreciate nature
4	its good to ge out of the country
4	its great for people to be in nature. god made our world and it is a blessing to enjoy it
0	ITS GREAT GET OUT THE OUTSIDERS
3	its great people can still go out and experience nature
3	its how i connect to nature
1	It's important that our environment gets taken care of so I hopethat the ban makes a difference
4	its important that people easy can take part of the nature and therefor be willing to protect it
3	its important to allow all types of tourists access to nz. it just needs to be reulated.
1	its important to protect your wildlife. and unfortunate that people leve waste when camping in thewild.
1	It's more important to protect nature than allow people the freedom to wildcamp.
4	its nice to travel the country like that
4	its not a problem of freedom caming. instead a problem ofthose peoplewho dumb rubbish.
1	its not necessary to have free camping to enjoy this country
1	its not that good to camp anywhere but its ok to camp at campsites
2	its not that much to care about like i dont care because i dont camp so pople who do camp abd do it for fun would care and be worried. but yeah. so i recommend not taking it away becuase people who camp ar gonna be mad
3	its not theright solutionto the problem
3	its nz biggest industy. they should make strict laws and punishments if people leave rubbish behind
2	its okayifyucleanup afteryourelf and dobt lace mark
3	its okif theres no mess left
3	its one of things Nz has to offer. maybe regulting and inforcing new rules to control the issues instead of stopping it.
3	Its only a select few ruining for others
4	its only the idiots that leave rubbish
1	its our backyard we have to live  here i dont want to stand in someone elss shit because theyre too lazy to find a place to flush away their exrement or puttheyre rubbishin a bin
4	its our country that we pay taxes and have every right to the land
4	its really good to get out doors and restrecting people to not camp out in a feild or the woodsis really bad because people love doing it. its like taking away peoples fav passion.
4	its sad for the people who are responsible
3	its sad people cannot respect the space to the extent that such a ban would be needed
3	Its sad that people dont look after the environment they are in . i love freedom camping and wish my children could have the same chance to explore nz and feel connected to the land.
3	its sad wish we could learn and teach others to respect land. important for connecting with nature
3	its so sad how its killing and can i get uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
0	its stupid to leave your rubbish behind
3	its such a good opportunity for people with a much lower budget to explore the country. Education and more rubbish bins
3	Its the main reason tourists come to NZ. There would be way less tourism and less seasonal workers
0	its the only way of reducing direct negative impact on nature
3	its the wrong question... our citys show how people that wouldnt even regard to tent treat nature *trash everywhere* ... its not about camping in the nature ... its about changing the society   so that everyone tries to protect enviroment
1	its too difficult to control freedom camping. especially inrestrictedareas with wildlife
1	its too much pressure on the enviroment
4	its very bad for the enviroment because if u go camping out  in the woods and u make a fire u coud posibly cause a fire and could die fom all this
3	itsa good way toexplore yur own backyard
4	itshould not be because there is litte harmto come from it soyou guys can ban it to say its better for the enviroment but it is just to make the goverment lookbetter
3	ITSimportant that people strengthen their bndwit nature. why cnserve if not to serve.
1	itwaill help the environentand will save our native  animals
0	ive already done it. so illl be able to brag after
3	ive just free camped around the south island and saw only responsible camping. it was a great way to see NZ
0	ive seen the mess they leave
3	iwi and hapu and doc control the areas
1	iwi hapū hāpori with help of doc and MBIE contol and place rules that protect our environment
4	judith will take u for your sins
3	Just fine the people leavibg rubbish
2	just need to enforce better caming and environmental legislature/etiquitte
4	just not somethg ineed ti worry aboutin he berfuture
3	just put rulesin place. it is better to educate than take away priviledges like this. people especially children need opprtunities to learn how to enjoy nature while respectig it.
2	just so lonely that they dont care any more
4	just take your rubbish with you and camp responsibly
3	ka whakararu teenei tuumomo aahuatanga i too taatou nei taioao. kaaore e kore ka whakarerea noa a ngai tangata oo raatou raapihi. ka whakairongia a papatuaanuku ki nga mahi tuukino oo ngai tangata.
3	kahore te nga hunga e mahi tukino ki to matou whenua whakapa tuatahi   ki nga kaunihere kia whakapai i te wai karua i nga wahi kua paruparu na nga paamu
3	keep encouraging people to beresponsible and not leave rubbish
3	kiwis dont usually poop in their own backyard. the do care about our environment. usually the ones that disrespect our environment are visitors to our country. so why should new zealanders be punished for not being able to freedom camp they are not usually yhe offenders.
2	kuki airang to the world 682
3	l think we  must keep camping because it makes people feel free and welcome to nature.
4	lack of respect for natureby all not just freedom camping is the real issue freedom camping is nomore than a tiny scapegoat fora much bigger issue lifestyle this is about generating revenue from nature
0	land is more important than people
3	lbeing able to go out and be a part of nature is the reson i have changed my habbits to better protect. there should b rules and laws around keeping freedom camping a clean and tidy hobby but there should not be an outright ban. through these sorts of activities peoplecan enjoytr
1	leave a mess.Should be paying for accommodation.
1	leave itas you find it wouldyou shit in your own nest
3	Leave no trace initiatives and other positive but enforced rules are the lighter choice. bans dont solve problems they push them into hiding.
4	leave the place how you found it
4	Leave things alone!  Stop interfering with peoples lives.
4	leaving behind trash is shit.campig withoutleaving a trace is ok and i love it.
4	leaving plastic is bad for the earth.
3	leaving rubbish . do not respect our environment
4	leaving the areaas you find itbis acceptable and a greatway tosee the coubtry and different areas vakues
1	lenvironment est incroyable et il faut quon prend soin
4	less accessible for those who cant afford expensive holidays
0	less s... lefton the side of the road
0	let naturetake its own course against  the human race as  nature will  always beat us
4	let people camp freely. provide more bins
4	let tem cp but t mae sure threyclean up after themselfs
4	let the camp bt to follow certain rules
4	let them explore this beatiful country xx
1	Let us preserve what is left
1	leve nothing but a foot print. thats hiwit shoukd b
3	like most things freedom camping is only bad when done irresponsibly
0	limit damage to our envronment and keep our public lands clean for future generations
1	LITtering is VERY bad for the enviroment
4	loaded statement because nore people respect the environment
2	LOL IDC AND DID NOT ASK L
4	long  distance hiking is my passion. camping is an important  aspect of that. as  trampers we  need have good leave no trace practices. i think there  is a lack   of education. i would rather see  more outreach and education rather than a ban.
0	looking after the enviroment is paramount
3	loses the pleasure of LIVINg inAOTEAROa it should be more controlled but not bnned
3	loss of tourism. dip in economy
3	lots of animals can get hurt thats why im worried
0	lots of beautiful free appointed spots so no need to bother nature
3	Lots of people disagree because they  want
1	lots oftrash is left behind while camping and that could be really harmful to native creatures.
4	love and appreciation of the wilds can only be achieved by being in it. Rather than banning it there should be far better education made available. Maybe people should be able to attend courses on how to behave in the wilds. They could the apply for a license to freedom camp!
3	love camping only if people can respect our land as well
4	low income tourists are not theproblem. stop providing infastructure for only self contained. stop blaming backpackers for your long term policy failures
2	low low low ur boat down the street
3	lts beacause we l mean some of us love camping but it ruined the enviroment so we have two choises
4	lucan is a not good frend
3	Makes camping a rich persons activity
1	makes it easier for nature to strive
3	makes it harder for young people to explore nature
0	makes theworld a livable place for our future generaton
3	makesurepeople  can  throw away their rubbish
4	many motorhomers with self contained vehicles use freedom camping sites very responsibly and protect this priviledge passionately. Problems are caused by a lack of respect for the environment and these people have to be educated.
2	Many other countries only allow designated campsites for the same purpose.
3	many peope like me are absolutly thankful for freedom camping und dont leave any rubbish etc. thanks for the free camping option
1	Many people are not aware of the damage they may cause.
3	Many people come to NZ to experience the stunning nature here. Camping responsibly in the middle of this nature you feel so in awe that you want to protect it with all you can contribute. Camping on campgrounds just doesnt give you that feeling of connection to nature.
4	many people respect the nature but then it is forbitten for everyone.
3	Maori people are bought up on the land
4	maoris should be banned. they are extremely harmful to the environment
4	MAYBE a bit too far? But there should be stricter rules in place.
1	maybe freedom camping sitesneed more rubbish collection
3	Maybe in the future some native animals will be able to recoverthis way.
1	maybe it would stop fore.st fires and there would be less rubbish.
1	maybe not ban but regulate and create awareness
1	maybe we can not ban freedom camping but have certian restrictions around whatyou can brig and do there as well as fine peopleif they are found littering
4	me   and my family go freedom camping over the holiays for fun
1	Me mahi tahi me ngā uri whakaheke aua whenua rā kia kite ai i ngā hua
3	me noho koutou i nga papa  tika.  Whakautua te moni.
3	mean nzers get limited as well
1	men should share their feelings more
3	mi granyhas go to argentina argentina is were i live
4	minority should notdictate and ruin a beautiful expierincesch as caming. enforce better bins and cleaning areas.
4	More education around the impact of waste.
3	More education is needed. Not banning. Banning it will only cause more trouble.  Educate the tourists as they pick up their vehicles. Help them to help us.
4	more facilities should be available. also many freedoms are self contained. you would need to ban picnicing
2	more important things to worry abot
1	more people need to be aware of ensuring that they remove all their waste
3	more people need to connect and experience the beauty of nature. teach them to do it with respect
4	more provision for freedom camping would allow for better rubbish and wastedisposal
3	more restriction could help without fully taking camping away
3	morepublic toilets on freedom campingsites and higher fines for littering
4	most campers are there to enjoy and protect the envionment. better signage for distance to toilets could help.
3	most campers care forthe nature they live in. if there are spots whereit isnotallowed it is okay but why bann it compleately?
4	most do the right thing. Prohibition will only mean the people that look after such places will stop going.
4	most free campers dispos of waste responsibly. dnt punsh all for tr slackness of some
4	Most freedom campers are responsible.  We need better monitoring and systems to ensure compliance for the few that spoil it. Campgrounds are largely unaffordable and travelling and enjoying our country will become for the wealthy if freedom camping is banned.
4	Most freedom campers do not have a negative impact. I not only never leave a trace but also act as kaitiaki and collect any rubbish i see. Freedom camping is a gift Aoteroa has to offer the people and encouraging people to love the land
4	most freedom campers I know love and respect the environment . That is why they travel and camp in nature.
4	most freedon campers are responsible and wish to commune witht the environment. tgier children willgrow up knowing a better world and understanding.
1	most nature lovers will leave campsites clean but we do affect nature unfortunately
3	most of the freedom campers are cleaning up afte themselves and take their trash with them. just because a few wont behave everyone is in a bad light
3	MOST PEOPLE ARECONSIDERATE AND THOSE PEOPLE WILL BE PENALIZED
4	most people do care about nature and youcan tell people how to care for the enviroment.
4	most people take care of the invierment why should the majoridy go down for something the a small group of careless litterers do?
1	Most people would litter in theenviroments
1	most respect the environment . abusers should forefit their transport.how you policethis im not sure
3	must be conserved but with big fines for non respetful people
4	My coat was stolen at last week's inerfet banquet so I helped myself to some few-the-better umbarellas
0	my mum is the best and i love her so much
4	na te mea i tango nga pakeha i taku whenua
3	nā te mea ka waiho ngā tāngata i a rātou ake rāpihi. Engari tēra pea me whakatū ture e te kawanatanga kia whakapai i a rātou para/ hanga i nga ipupara.
2	naruto has to much filler episodes
1	native animals and flora will increase in population providing more nutrition to local communities and ecosystems
0	native birds will  start tocome back to the bush
1	natural pollution from animals themselves like droppings or just non decomposed remains are enough or maybe too much for the little critters or the biggest beasts of the forest to handle. so even if you want to be outside for thrills atleast pick up your own waste and shit
4	nature and the outdoors should be free for everyone to enjoy; responsibly.
3	nature has to be protected at all costs
4	nature is for everyone. tech the right behaviour
3	nature is very  important for the soule and we should feel how is it beeing outside but to leave it clean and to punish the ones who do it.
4	nature isfor  all to enjoy responsibally
4	nature should be accessable to everyone
3	nature should be accessible fore everyone
4	nature should be enjoy to anyone
4	nature should be enjoyed by anyone. if people tke care of nature. it should not be  problem
4	nature should be for every budget but conditions are ok.
4	nature should be free for everyone. why not teach people how to camp without harming the nature?
3	nature us important and humans long term impact is not looking at this.
3	need more evidence that freedom camping is very harmful before we ban it
1	need topro tectand preseve some areas
2	never heard of it. do not care.
3	New Zealand doesnt have much to offer. The accessability freedom camping offers is a big tourist drawcard so the ecoomy would suffer without it
1	new zealand is doing better than most countries at protecting native biodiversity - banning freedom camping would only help this. save our planet!
4	new zealand portrays itself as a country of free travel but it is getting more expensive and less enjoyable to travel here. don't rent out campervans if there is nowhere to camp in nature. put bins ; toilets and facilities andpeople will use them.
3	New Zealand should be shared with its people. Better education. signage. and places dedicated to free camp will help protect the environment
3	new zealanders should be able to travel around their own country as the majority are resonsible freedom campers and look afterthe enviroment
4	Nnot everyone leaves their waste in nature. Most campers behave responsible.
2	no cause its fun ad we should be able todo what we want
1	no freedom camping is better for the enviroment
0	no matter how much care there will always be some waste left behind. so banning camping is good.
0	no more trash being deposited into our environment
4	no one cares especially our government departments where it should all startabd they own allour national parks
0	no one wins from freedom camping. the environment people travelled to see is slowly denegrated and there is little contribution to the economy to protect the environment or help with infrastructure
1	no resources go to supporting the environment
4	No! Stop rising out of the floor! I don't wanna go to the breakfast buffet with you!
2	normal camping is expensive for backpackerstravelling on a budget
3	not a majr contribter to pollution
3	not all cmpers adversley affect the environment
3	not all freedom campers are there to negatively impact the enironment
1	Not all humans are responsible enough to be left freely with nature It is th greater good to protect what is left
3	Not allpeople will fnd this as a gd solution and will try to break the set rules
3	not enough affordable camping areas. also freedom camping allows ppl to connect to nature. do nt ban but rather teach a better mentality.
4	not enough being done by policy level gvmt
4	not everone can afford to stay in park or hotels
3	Not everybodyis disrespectful. Don't let the few ruin the beautiful freedom caming spots and chance to enjoy nature in our beautiful country up close for everybody else!
1	not everyone appreciatesnature and ow to respect it
4	not everyone can afford the luxury of owning a campervan or caravan. only way to get into nature without all the frills!!!
3	not everyone follows the rule and its hard to regulate and stop inappopriate practice.
1	not everyone is littering. few bad apples spoil the bunch
4	not everyone leave behind rubbish some are respectul
4	not everyone should be punished for the bad behaviour of the minority. Just take your rubbish with you!
2	not goig o mak thedifference we need
1	not good for environment or economy
3	not good i like to camping a lot
3	not monitored well enough.  Puts too much pressure on public facilities
4	notanybody  leaves rubbish just need to educate people
3	NZ is an amazing country with unbelievable nature. Responsible camping is a great way to experience it and learn more. If people cant respect this it shouldnt be free
4	nz is an expensive country to visit this reduces the number of backpackers who can bring value with correct education gentrification of tourisms is poor idea. correct management of freedom caming can further educate everyone
3	NZ needs the extra revenue the freedom campers bring.
3	nz outdoors must remain economically viable to ALL kiwi
3	NZ should be available to everyone. There should be more toilets and waste management for freedom camping sites.
3	nzs enviroment should be accessible to all people regardless of income. what we need are better facilities and education for those wanting to experience nz this way
4	often freedom campers use the toilets and bins provided anyway. Its a cheap way of exploring our county. We can still have freedom campers AND protect the environment. Its about education
4	one persons actions shouldnt affext the masses
3	only a few leave rubbish not the majority
3	Only a few leave their waste and this ruins it for the rest. Many campers care about nature and their impact on the environment. Its important to be free & learn to respect our natural world. More people need to be properly educated  to share the beautiful place in which we live.
4	Only a very small % campers not doing the right thing, why should very small minority ruin it for the rest of us. We spend $ in communities as we travel. Public toilets used where avail and carry a camping toilet to do the right thing  but can't be certified. Dont kill camping!
1	Only environmental concious people should be free camping
0	only kiwis should have the right to camp where they like.  freedom campers from over seas are bad news for nz . they have made communitys mad and  made it hard for the rest of us. they dont spend money to be here.
2	only people who dont fly in planes get a vote
3	only whhen you leave it clean. respect nature.
3	onlya few freedom campers leave rubbish behind
2	ont realy camp much and wheb i do we go to caming sites anyway therefre i do not reallycare where people go.
2	OOPS WE ARE SO SORRY BUT IT LOOKS LIKE I DONT CAREYOU ERROR WAS LOGGED ON ID 64728ebdsg464378udplseat7472 HAHA LOL
1	osi think that the question is to simplistic. as long as people who are going out camping in nz take care abd watch what they are doing in the environmet then it should be ok. but there are always going to be people who don't give a damn abot our environment: so yeahh
4	others ruin freedom camping for people who are good custodians of the land
0	otherwise all these animal will become extinct
4	ots of peopledo therightthing andthey shouldntbepunished
1	Our Contry is too important not to !
0	our economy needs tourists to pay their way
1	our entertainment is nt as important as protecting the environment.
1	Our environment brings  us life. Sustaining it for future generations to enjoyis more important than a fun weekend out camping. Freedom camping shuld be banned until we have an alternative solution to dealing with waste and protecting our environment
1	our environment is slowly getting destroyed
1	Our flora and fauna will certainly benefit from this venture. The truth is people are inherently selfish causing polluted ecosystens around the world. This is demonstrated all the time with free camping.
3	our freedoms to travel  and explore will be taken away.
1	our inviroment is special and its going to out live us so we need to protect it even is that means youll miss like a week off fun
1	our needs and wants are not themost important. leave no trace is vital to teach and practice but is often neglected so therefore caming should happen in designated areas.
4	our origins are wild.  to take the wild from humans is to encourage separation from nature. experiencing nature in the raw form is one of the best ways to really understand and develop love for it
0	our unqiuie nature is more important than humans access tofreedom camping
4	PEOLPLE SHOULD CLEAN UP AFTER THEMSELVES. butit shouldnt be banned completely
0	peope suck and if they dont treat places nicely they shouldnt be allowed to go!!!!
3	Peopele should be educated on the LNT principles and how to care for the whenua. Without the knowledge and a straight ban people will procede to camp and distroy. Taking away the option doesnt fix the problem.
4	people  should be responsible and enoy the countryside but sadly a minority cause problems
1	people  shuld take their rubbish with them
4	PEOPLE AND ANIMALS CAN LIVE TOGETHER WITHOUT US HARMING ANIMALS. NZ IS FOR EVERYONE
3	people are able to clean up after themselves
1	people are bad except Elsa Clidi
4	people are desecrating our precious whenua
4	people are dum they will continu doing if it is not regulated
0	people are fun. we should be able to poop whereever we stay. poop poop poop
1	people are not careful enough when freedom cmping.they need to be monitored.hence we need staff around the campers.
1	people are not motivated to think about the well being of things outside themselves
3	people are not same. there are also people who cares and laeving nothng just footprints.
1	People are people. A high percentage is careless.
1	people are too careless to have the right to freedom camp. abolish humans.
0	people are using for permant living. no council patrolling
4	people can be  taught to camp in a way to preserve and improve the environment.  Camping bans only decrease environmental awareness
1	PEOPLE CAN BE A BIT DUMB SOMETIMES
4	people can behave with love to nature it depends on personality
4	people can do what they please and no data or questionares will change that
2	people can do what they want and if they litter they shoud pick it up and not be selfish
4	people can enjoy freedom camping without leaving rubbish behind. The all self contained rules ridicilous. just put bins with a lid toilet and a sink with non portable water and that's it. Fine the people who leave waste. not respecful freedom camers without a "never used" toilet
2	people can freedom camp as long as there are rules about what to do. i think it is fine
4	people can harm the environment in many ways every day. people especially starting with the young should be taught to respect the environment allpeople animals wild animals and nature. ALWAYS TAKE RUBBISH ECT HOME FOR A START.
4	people can interactive positilywit nature through education
4	people can learn to respect environment
2	people can pick up their own rubbish but also good because it helps our land
1	people can stay in camping areass
3	people can take care of the whenua
1	people can use designated camping areas and leave more nature
4	people cn camp wherever if they clean up
3	people do not appreciate the environment
0	people dont always keep the ground clean
1	people dont appreciate what they hav
1	people dont care or know ho to behave
1	people dont clean up after themselves
1	people dont take responsibility for their waste
4	PEOPLE DONTLOOK AFTER THE ENVIRONMENT WHEN CAMPING. THEY LITTER AND LEAVE THEIR WASTE. THIS IS HARMFUL TO THE ENVIRONMENT
1	people freedom campingis so thoughtless towards the environment and the animals in nz. it is not right to destroy their habitat for a night of camping
1	people get more aware and clean after themselves
3	People have a right to enjoy nature. Regulate it.
3	people have to learn how to keep the environment clean.they should be educated and there should be better cotrolled with rangers or something similiar to keep an eye on the people who just dont care about the nature. do fines baedon income. then itll hurt
3	people in general do not care enough about nature to preserve it well enough. unfortunately.
3	people just need to be respectful of the land
3	people just need tohavewhn they go
0	People lack understanding of taonga and how to respect native species. People trespass bird nests (dotterel)  and iforests spread dieback and leave food around for pest mammals and spreading seeds of noxious weeds.
1	people leave too much rubbish and have been known to leave their own waste so it will be good for it to be banned!
4	people leaving rubbish ruins the opportunity to freedom camp for others. if we cannot respect nature it should be stopped.
3	People leving rubbish everywhere is bad forthe environment.
4	people like it and its fun
3	people like to camp but it is sometimes dangeous when they areprey or orther stuff in the wild
4	people love camping and it brings joy to people just tell the people camping to be think about the invorment
1	people may finally be paying attention
3	people may not respect the environment and clean up atfer themselves
3	people may produce unenvironmentaly friendly contributions e.g. littering and polluting.
1	people might get hurt doing it
4	people might not have a space to stay so they might need to camp
3	people might really want to go there
4	People miss out due to a few losers
4	People need access tnature to learn to appretiate it
3	people need educating and still be allowed to mix with nature and our surroundings.
1	people need to be aware that their inconsiderate actions impact nature.
3	people need to be ble to freedom camp...responsibly. I favou rconsequences for irresonsible camping
4	people need to be educate first then serious repercussions should be applied once whenua is dishonoured
4	people need to be in nature to love it and therefore want to care for it.
1	people need to be more responsible when they camp or we need to limit
4	PEOPLE NEED TO CAMP IT IS SUPER FUN
3	people need to clean up after themselves but it should not be banned
3	people need to connect with nature
3	people need to experience the outside envionment to learn to protect it
0	people need to learn basics furst at home
4	people need to learn to be responsible. nature is for everyone and is not a business !!!
3	people need to live alongside nature. Banning freedom camping further separates people fromnature.
3	people need to pick up their rubbish
4	People need to to be tought. And there need to be enoughplaces to throw away your rubbish.
4	people needto have theoppourtunity to camp in beautiful placs and be surrounded bynature in order to fullyrespect it in thefirst place.
1	people sholud leave things as they find it
3	people shoud b alloed to camp
4	people shoud be able to do what they please. instead of banning it maybe make it so youneed permits. banning it is only going to cause more problems
3	people shoud be aloud to freedom am aslong as they follow certain rles
0	people shoud be free to roam
3	people shoud be more aware and then we can allow cmping
3	people shoud respsect the envirionment. they shoukdny freedom campif they clean up aftert hemselves.
0	people shoudnt be able to just walk into ananimas habitatt just because they want to
3	people shoukd beable to exprience camping and outdoors. but need to be respetful
3	people should all have a chance to experience our beautiful country... wherever they like !
3	People should always respect environment and not only while freedom camping. Baning freedom camping isn't really a solution. Educating and punish those who doesn't respect it might be.
3	people should b allowed to camp out aslong as theyare respectful. i suggest ibstead of banning we should mplimentbig fines
4	people should be able to camp anywhere as ong as they cleanup after themselves
3	people should be able to camp everywhere
4	people should be able to camp freedomly and protect the wild life to in harmone
3	people should be able to camp if they would like to
4	people should be able to camp in the bush
3	People should be able to do anything as long as there are laws to stop it from harming the environment. Caring for it is top priority
3	people should be able to enjoy our beautiful country at no cost.
2	people should be able to enjoy the wilderness and explore but will have to pay a fine if they leave any trash behind.
2	People should be able to experience nature, but then if they're leaving their rubbish, then it's not very fair on the environment.
3	people should be able to explore the wilderness
3	people should be able to freedom camp because they should get the choice
4	people should be able to freedom camp but there should be a charge for visitors to nz and more controls in place
4	people should be able to use thelandforfree
4	people should be allowed as mos respect environment
2	people should be allowed to camp
4	people should be allowed to camp
4	People should be allowed to camp in the wild. As long as they are respectful of the enviroment and take their rubbish home.
4	people should be allowed to campbut nolittering or cutting trees
3	people should be allowed to do this responsibly
3	people should be allowed to enjoy the wonders of the world and be respectful to look after it at e same time  . i believe this is possible.
2	PEOPLE SHOULD BE alowd to camp if they  are cearful.
4	people should be angry that vermins are killing native birds.
4	People should be educated enough to cause no harm to the nature. We should teach respect and minimise impact instead of banning access to nature.
3	people should be educated on not littering and respecting the environment instead
4	people should be educted to not leave trash behind
1	people should be fined for leavingcampsites messy.
4	people should be free to enjoy the environment.
0	people should be in camp grponds only
4	people should be intitled to camp on our land if you are moari
4	people should be more responsible for their actions.
3	people should be more responsible when freedom camping. education is required
4	people should be more resposible when camping and take their rubbish
1	People should be prepared to make sacrifices for the enviroment. Particularly because there are plenty of other options to book DOC campsite
3	people should be respecfulof the countryside instead of bannedfrom it
4	people should be trusted toclean upafter themselves
3	people should be trustedand be respectful of their enironment
4	people should beed uducated bout the enviorement let thema tke responsibility let them travel and us efreedome camping
4	people should care more so thatwe wouldn t have to ban the activty
3	people should cherish it more and be much more respectful of the land
3	people should cleanup after themselves    we should share the earth and take care of it
0	people should contribute to the care and maintenance of our natural resources that they are visiting and experiencing
0	people should control interaction with our natural treasures
4	people should eat less meat. drive fuel efficiently. consume less. and educate nature visitors. but. you pollute far more by eating meat
4	people should get out in the nature more
3	people should just respect nature more and be educated on why they shouldnt litter instead of being banned and penalties could be introduced to deter negative behaviour
4	people should learn how to camp responsibly. perhaps backcoutry permits would work?
1	people should learn to be respectful to theland. its sad if free camping is baned but that can prevent too much unrespectful behaviour.law shouldnt be too strict though
2	people should learn to pick up their own rubbish and not be selfish. freedom camping isnt the problem its the people
4	people should learn toclear up after themselves and not lot it affectothers!
1	people should look after the envroment
4	people should not tell other people how to live. Many freedom campers are entirely responsible and living closer to nature possibly care more about nature than some urban dwellers
3	people should pick up thier trash
0	people should preserve whats left of nature
4	people should respect ture by discardibg ofrubbish. but camping is an ideal oliday to reax with whana
1	people should stay in proper campgrounds and protect our environment
3	people should still camp because it is lots of fun and exiting and you learn new things and make new friends while having an adventure.
4	People should stop littering and clean up afterr themselves to minimise the impact on the environment
3	people should take better care of the environment and show respect
4	people should take care of the enviroment no matter what place they are in
4	people should take care of their own rubbish
4	People should take more care and should leave no trace but more could be done to help people make better decisions  about their rubbish abd excrement.  Banning freedom camping is NOT the answer.  Resources and amenities are.  Long drops and rubbish   collectio would help.
4	people should take their waste with them. Approriate toilet should be dug.
3	People shouldfeel responsible for the environment and i think hat most people that do freedom campingt are because they are thankful for it
1	people shouldnt have free range over the and beacuse they have proven that they destroy it. It would be better frr the envirinment if you put out tras for pests and keep huans away
4	people shouldnt leave their stuff behind. That would be so much better
2	people shuld be alllowd to camp
3	people shuld be educated on theimportance of cleaning up.free camping is a greatopportuniyu
0	people suck and the enviroment should be protected from us
1	people suck they shouldnt be allowed to roam freely they are a pest
3	people thoroghly enjoy being at one with nature
4	people want to camp responsibly. provide easy to acces bins and people will use them or should be finedheavily
2	people wh freedn camp generally care about th envrmnet
0	people whether informed ornot are not respectful of the environment especially tourists and this is a secure way to protectour environment. people shoud use camping or doc sites wuth fcilities intead
1	People whether they are local or tourists need to be more informed and educated about where our world is heading for example; polution_fumes by cars and machines also fires_fuels and gases.  Until then Freedom Camping needs to be more regulated and limited.
3	people who are responsible should be allowed
3	people who camp responsibly will not hurt the environment too much.
4	people who know nature know whyto prote
0	people who lack consideration for this bountiful environment should not have the right to camp in it
3	people who leave the rubbish in nature are stupid.  But I dont think that is a problem of freedom camps but uneducated and selfish people.
3	people will continue to camp anyway and it is better to provide infrastructure to minimise damage and promote interest
3	people will continue to do so ad try to be sneaky and makeit worse
3	people will continue to ignore the rules
3	people will do it anyway like the covidprtests.better to suport with infrastructure and limit the areas where its allowed
3	people will ignore what you say and do it anyway they really dont care.                                            and that sucks because there are some people who wouldent give it up if there home was at stake
0	people will not be allowed to do it and destroy the world
4	people will not get to experience nature properley
1	PEOPLE WILL STILL FREEDOM CAMP ON A SMALLER SCALE
3	people will stop conecting with nature. we are part of the enviroment. we need to be in not out. inplement fees if need be
3	people willcamp annyway so lets putthem inspecific spots. where we can easily controll if they do stupid things and destroy the enviornment
3	People won't be abke to explore and expeience nature as easily.
4	people wont come to nz anymore.
4	people wont stop.  just add bathrooms and regulate canping.
4	people would take care if bins  and toilets were provided
0	peoplejust live thereand put all ofthe stuff in the bush
0	peopleshould be more responsible for their waste
3	peopleshould be mre careful. there should be rules agaibst littering in wild places ad lots of regulations regarding camping in nature preserves
4	peoplewho freedom camp are usually the ones concerned about the biodiversity and the protection of the wilderness and mostly engaged n climate change. also it is a good way to become aware of our environment
4	phht. everyone will get sick if you do that.
1	please make available basic facilities for campers such as toilets and rubbish bins. responsibilities lie with everyone. allowing all people to enjoy the outdoors.
3	po xchri poo elliot poo willem poo felix NOT POO ANELA HAHAHAHAA
3	point is not abt camping. point is how ppl treat the environment
4	poo face lol bu bum caca in your house broken ps4 oh no idont like ps4s so haha i dont care lol get rekt
1	poo isyum goto roblox friend request DaHyperGuy234 tell me i sawyou on da qustionare cya soon
4	poop anywhere and clean it up
1	poopy poop to be honest :)
1	positive legislation that helps people respect   the environment is so    important
0	potecting the environment is imortant. people leaving their rubbish around are not.
1	pour laisser la liberte aux animaux
4	ppl just need to take their rubbish with them
1	preservation of the enviorment should be the priority
3	prevents a popular for kiwis and travellers to see more inimate parts of new zealand. educate people more about how to be n a delicate envionmnet without damaging it.
4	Prohibition takes away valuable ressources that could be used toprotect the environment  rather than infringe on people enjoying nature.
0	protect environment is more important than the joy offreedom caming
1	protect environment rubbish in rightplace . money from ccomodation to environment. waste properlydealt with
3	protect nature FOR people not  from people
3	protecting nature needs to be the highest priority but i am not sure rules that restrict access to nature are necessarily the way to go
1	protecting the area is more inportant than taking a holiday
1	PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT IS MORE IMPORTANT
0	protection of native fauna. im a tramper
1	Protection of native species is very important
0	protection of ourplanet is vastly more important than cheap holidays for the most detructive species on the planet
0	protects environment and directs tourism into places with adequate infrastructure
4	Provide infastructure so rubbish and human waste can be disposed of correctly
3	provide safe spots to do so.sites
1	provided spaces are affordable and have services that protect our environment better. diffucult to enforce though
1	ptotect the fragile environment and reduce human pollution
4	Punish the abuser not those who are considerate of the environment. Dont put all freedom campers in the same basket.
3	put controls around it. shouldnt be outright banned
0	qqqqwaaaaaaaaaassssssssdddddXXCqwwwe this will help preserve our land
1	rather than a full ban i think some sort of liscence should be distribted to responsble campers allowing them to camp freely
4	Rather than ban it all together perhaps promote more awareness to the campers about their impact on the beauty of this land.  Freedom camping is wonderful!
1	rather than outright ban we should look to enforce clear rules to allow enjoyment of nature for those who seek it whilst providing maximum enviromental protection.
4	reality is sad but there will always be disrespectful people. banning freedom camping will punish all the respectful campers. hopefully there are heaps of nice places thanks to the doc
1	really dont līkē thē wāstē lēft behind
3	reason young people come to nz
4	reasonable naturelovers shouldnt sufferbecauseif some disrespecful wankers. freedon camping only for kiwis
3	Removing people from nature seems like a poor solution. Education on how to responsibly enjoy would be better.
3	resonsible camping should not harm the environment. people should be encuraged to camp without leaving rubbsh rather than ban camping.
3	RESPECT THE COUNTRY THE PEOPLE AND EACH OTHER
3	responiblepeople should beable to enjoy freedom camping.provided they adhere to strick guidelines around caring for our natural environment.
3	responsible campers shouldnt be a problem.
3	responsible camping puts people in touch with nature. this hopefully helps individuals to value it more.
4	responsible freedom camping does not disturb nature.
3	Responsible freedom camping doesnt harm the environmentandkeeps us closer to nature
3	RESPONSIBLE freedom camping should be allowed in all countries.
1	restrict the area of camping but not banning it
4	Restricting access to the outdoors leads to a more isolated community.
4	restrictions should be in place to protect the enviroment
4	Reuben Godfrey hangs out at public playgrobds too much
3	reventing people from accessibg their nature spaces will create apath for is well being. howcan people know or value what they dont experience?
3	risk of fire and litter and scaring natrual wildlife
4	rubbish and hunan wasre is the issue. not campibg itseldf
3	rubbish is often left by freedomcampers which is disresoectful and affects how we can all experience our beautiful country.
3	rules and regulations should be enfrced to mantain better care of the environmnt without compromising on tourism
3	sad but understandable. not everyone makes a mess of natural environments so it sucks to ban freedom camping just because of the idiots that do.
4	sad thatpeople cant take theirstuff with them
0	Sadly we are at the point that there are too many freedom campers.. Even if most of them are tidy. i'm in favour of retaining the ecology of thenatural environment. Pollution from campers is pretty bad currently- in some of themost scenic spots in NZ.
0	save our environment. protect for future generations
1	save those animals no more frredomn camnpoingg
1	Saving our enviourment will make the planet last longer. We only have one earth
1	saving the birds so in 100 years or so there are lots of native birds flying over our heads
3	school people how to respect nature from a young age.
4	Seems strange to demonize people being in nature when the accumulated negative impact of any city or our daily lives is orders of magnitude greater.
1	self contained freedom caming shoukd be allowed in designated areas but shoud be outlawed in most reservation areas
3	setting more barriers to getting close to nature wont make the world better
3	should be able to camp and still take all your waste with you to help look after the environment
4	should be able to camp anywhere but ban easy to set fire sites
3	should be allowed but more closely regulated
3	Should be allowed within specific parameters and rules. Designated areas that may be monitored  . Awareness is ke Strict fines for non compliance.
1	should be alowed in specifics spaces
3	should be better monitored and more regulations rather than banned
3	should be more regulated not stopped
3	should be only be allowed in camps
1	should be self contained or in a camp site
4	should definetly be allowed. there is too much goverment restrictions now. we dont need polotical correctness in our every day life
1	should have regulations about responsible waste renoval
4	should not be outright banned as some people are responsible
3	shouldnt be band laws need tobe adding to protect the environment and peoples right to enjoy it.
3	shouldnt be banned but people need to know what is ok and what isnt. some people shouldnt ruin things for everyone
4	show me the evidence of the impact
3	shuldnt be banned but need some regulations
2	sites could be designated and monitored
4	skibddy bab bab bab bab yes yes yes yes
4	sleeping in nature is vital.  there is a huge lack of facilities outside towns in nz especially bins . its hard to imagine banning camping would have more effect than say banning plstic  .
1	smore information is needed for those going to go freedom camping or maybe have specific grounds for those travelling back country to place rubbish but human waste is hard to remove in rural areas
0	so  we can protect animals and nature
1	so are fish wont be exsticket and the res of are birds a safe
4	so bad idea dude. freedom is life
4	so i was on fortnite moble bout to drop a 50bomb which is impresive on its own but on moble now thats a flex when elon musk himself send a 10000volt bolt of lighting through my body lounching mymy ipad right out of the windo now i dont know what hes up to
1	so i wasfwalking thr othr day abd thishomeess poo comes and says im a freedom camper ikewtf so ibured him 2 death hahahahahahahaahahahahahahaahahhahahahahahaahahahahaahaahahahahahaahahahahahahahaishwspeedisgoodeveryvkdyriseupstabdupitstattinewegotportuga ronald suuiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
0	so many places to explore ing life
1	SO my family and i can enjoy the outdoors without there being lots and lots of rubbish.
1	so that people can do whatever and be themselves and do what they wanna do
0	So THE Reason of happy and so spoiled
0	so theworld is a better place
3	some are caring of the environment but others not so :(
0	some areas are not suitable as they can disruptbreeding cycles for some species
3	Some families love to go camping so I am unsure ifit is best for the community.
1	some freedom campers are careless aboutour environment.
3	some nasty campershave ruinedit for responsible people. i think it should be banned but with plenty of free alternatives
0	some people arent capable of doing the right thing
4	some people give everyone else a bad rep
1	some people just dont care aboutour taiao like we do
2	some people leave rubbish some people don't.
2	some people like to go camping to connect with nature and to get freash air in the wild
3	some people might liter and camp fires admit co2.
4	some people ruin camping for everybody.
3	Some peopleshow little regard for our beautiful environment
3	some pepole live outside becaus they can not afford a house in this housing market
3	somecampers aent esponsible and just leve a mess behing
1	sopeoplewill learn to brig bck their rubbish
3	sorry about my son's terrible typing
4	Staying overnight in nature should be accessible to all. Motels etc are absurdly expensive in NZ. Don't ban - Regulate  and provide facilities instead so travel accomodation isn't just for the wealthy.
4	stop elling us what to do
3	stop tourist indusrty  whīch īn tūrn IS NOT GOOD FORECONOMY there needs to be a goodmix not everone can affird campigjust enforce the fines for bad apples
2	strangest thing is i didnt ask
3	Stricked rules and sympathy for our beautiful nature is needed. In that way we can live peacefully together. Peoplefinally have to understand that nature is the most preachuse thing inthe world which also has the potential to make us very happy. Theirfore we have to respect it.
3	Stricter litter and waste laws and punishment not outright banning freedom camping :)
1	stricter rules should apply and there should be certain areas people can camp
3	take a poop in a toilet..... not our bush
3	take advantage of our beautiful land
4	Takes away freedom caming to people thatlook after our country
4	takes away some of the onl freedom we have left
3	taking away freedoms should  always be a last resort. try educating instead
0	te ataa'ua hoki!!! rata rawa au ki eneei mi'i  kua ma'ia kia w'akatu atu ki ngai pa'eha i tenei mea te taiao mei kore te taiao ka kore  matou no reira e mi'i kauana ki te 'unga i 'ua mai enei tumomo whakaturanga kia w'akatu ki te ao w' anui
4	TEACH FOLKS HOW TO PACK IN AND OUT WASTE AND PROPERLY DISPOSE OF GRAY WATER
3	Teach freedom campers to treat our environment better
1	teach people there are consequences to not lookibg after things
3	teach people to be more envirnmentally friendly and take their rubbish with them dont stop campers wanting to connect with nature. its very healing
4	teach the annoying ppl to put there rubbish away. dont let them ruin it for the rest of us  trying to enjoy and live with the nature and eart.
4	teaching people to value and be custodians of their environment wuld be more effective
4	tents only in the bushonly   less impact
3	tepsHEAVY RESTICTIONS AND GUIDLINES SHOULD BE ENFORCED .EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS SHOULD BE SHARED WITH ALL CITIZEN.   THIS IS A BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY you can learn from other countries missteps.
1	tha tit would help the enviroment by not letting people camp any where they want and dunp rubish there
3	That  people should clean up after them and be a respectfull part of nat ure
1	that  the  enviromet should be protected from anything bad to make the world a better place
1	that a lot of freedom camping isnt responsble bu i love it
0	that ī am going to the moon
0	that all our lives are important to us all
1	that although freedom camping may be fun we need tobuild speceilised "deep forest" campsites with bins
0	that birds are the best and that we should look after them if they get injured
1	that brirds and wildlife is more important that fun
1	that camping should only be in camping grounds
3	that campng is a great  getaway
1	that change is imminent and people are made aware
1	that everyone includibgus shouldget a second chance
1	that everyone needs to be  nice  to nature
1	that freedom camping is to free
3	that freedom camping is wondefull .we are part of nature.WE need to be educated how live in natureand how to look after it
4	that i can go camping anytime i want because i thought that nz was a freecountry.i thibk everone should be able to camp becuase it helps some people with mental issues.
4	that I WOULD NEVER GROWUP AND GT MYFAMILES TRUST
1	THAT IDEA IS GOOD FOR NATURE
1	that if everyone keeps camping like that then we will have nothing left
1	That if it helps the enviroment then it should be started effctive immidiately
1	That if we banfree cmpingthe animals won' t get hurt
3	that if we hve enough care tkers our cuntry can be appreciated by ourselves and tourists
0	That is one step closer to stopping global warming
4	that is what makes nz so special you should educate more or fine those who do leave rubbish via taking a pic of their licence plate with the cctv
1	that it  is safer to not do freedom camping becuase it affects are inviorment
1	that it can be done while still allowing people to connect with nature
2	that it does not make much differrence
1	that it dose nt get band and people change
3	that it gives eople an idea of nature so they care for it
3	that it is fun to go freedom camping and shouldnt get banned
1	that it is super imortant to protect and restore wilderness.. and that shuld tke priority over scenic camping trips
4	That it provides a huge advantage for campers like me to be able to freedom camp. We should rather increase controls. Only a minority leaves waste behind. If we have freedomcamp areas which are often looked after and regulated we can avoid that the nature suffers.
2	that it should be allowed but poor treatment of the environment should be strongly fined
3	that it should be allowedas long aspeople clean up :)
2	that it should be banned in some places where birds are going extinct
4	that it shouldnt because it is a fun timeaway from home
1	that it will help to protect the environment
1	that its not ok to hurt our envoirment
0	That people freedo campingare desstroying our landscape
1	that people just dump it so they dont have to pay and they are being greedy and selfish
3	that people need freedom to experince the out doors
4	that people should be allowed but that people should be fined heavily if found littering or leaving behind waste
1	that people should just find a campsite
4	that people should not leave the waste on ground cus brids cant eat that stuff
1	that people who leave behind waste should get in trouble with the law
1	that ppl can exprience it withut damagin environment
3	that s a shame because itmeansthat some tourists don.t respect environments rules in campsites. it makes me really disapointed because to enjoy the best of the new zealand these campsite are essential
0	that some of the endangered  animals will be safer that way.
4	that spongebob and i should get a say in this
3	that the forest  deserves to live and its not fair to chop it down!!!!!!!!
4	that the land should be available for camping in designates areas and basic facilities...water a long drop provided.tourists bring money and many of them create climate issues...perhaps wecould also ban private jets and helicopter rides which also negatively impact the envt
1	that the leave rubbish .And they are not tangata whenua so they shouldnt be on peoples land.
1	that the preservation of nature is more important than human convnience for pleasure
3	that there are no cow and horses in it
1	that there is hope in the word
1	that this will make people think twice about freedom camping and that people will find a campsite
4	that we shoud stillfreedom camp buthave limited spots avalileto protect wildlife
1	that we should be hopeful so encourages us to do are best and think hader about what we do when we are camping so no dumb dissigens soenvirement from dangerous stuff
1	that we should protect our environment and freedom camping leads to littering and  destruction of wildlife
1	that where native animals and plants areit should be banned but campsites should be able to be set up in other areas
3	that would be really sad for people who want to explore the country. not everyone has enough money for the expensive and overcrowded campgrounds
4	that would bestupid because  peoplewould make more campsites and thatwouldbe worse du toenergy usege
3	thatit can be managed to minimise impact. freedomcamping is a great enabler to the outdoors.
3	thats what camping in nz is all about
0	the  best. most rapid way to protect nature.but i want my freedom. only for me....
4	the actions of a few idiots should not ruin it for the majority who are respectful
4	the actions of a few shoudnt destroy it for the many. educate and govern rather than ban
0	the animals die fromthe peaple wild
1	the camping should have moerestrictions and designated sites to protect all native and local wildlife.
1	the cost ofcleanup time money manpowerthe effect on environment. leaving yourrubbish is against the kiwi value
4	The earth is for us all to enjoy... money should not be a prequesite
2	THE ENVIRMENT IS GONE ALLREADY SO YEAH
0	the enviroment is VERY inportant and that we sould take more care of it and pepole shouldnt throw rubish or leave human waste its just not cool
3	THE ENVIRONMENT IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN PERSONAL FREEDOM.
1	The environment is more important than trampers having fun.
0	the environment is themost important thing
1	the environment needs to be card for
0	the environment should come before tourism
3	the environmentis damgedby the minority who dobt respect it. i freedom camp but do it proprly. u shouldprosecutethose wo dont
1	the few have let the true freedom campers who respect nature down.  its always the few who ruin it for most
3	the few ruin it for the ones who take care. if banning can you not put same penalties as banning for camping if they leave a mess.
1	the freedom campers wreck the places they stay at.
4	the freedom camping act should be recinded and local council again permitted to dictate where is safe for the environment
4	The freedom to easily enjoy the beauty of our country far outweighs the negative effects as long as most are doing it responsibly
0	the future of everything that makes nz unique depends on it
3	THE GOVERMENT IS COMING WATCH OUT!! MR MIDNIGHT IS MAKING MY BLOOD BOIL
1	THE GT SHOUD JUST POVIDE AFFORDABLE CAM SITES WITH PROPER FACILITIES
4	The impact freedom camping has is a drop in the ocean compared to transport, construction and farming. Freedom campers are an easy target which doesn’t affect corporations and other politics. Freedom camping attracts tourism and boosts GDP, never mind the enormous lifestyle gains
4	the impat of freedom camping is minimal compared to industries such as mining and logging and so many more. Banning freedom camping is also criminalising homelessness
1	The important distinction to make is freedom camping instead of all camping. People can still connect to nature in regulated campgrounds and the environment here must be protected. I am from AUS and the environment there is suffering. You have done so well here comparatively.
3	The kind of people that go freedom camping are usually enviromentally aware. It wouldn't be too hard to educate more people on the subject.
4	the land should be enjoyed responsibly
4	the majority of campers are responsible. it shouldnt be banned because of a thoughtless minority. ebetter education would be a more appropriate solution
4	the majority of campers is acting responsible. alongpublic road a lot of rubbish can be found too... but we are not banning cars either right?
4	The majority of campers ive met so far do care about keeping the environment clean and are responsible.
0	the mess they leave is shocking
1	the minority that abuse freedom camping do enough damage that it should be discussed and compromises made
1	the more human waset that goes into our enviroment. the quicker earthwill die :(
4	the most amount of tourists from overseas freedom camp as wellas many nzers. i thik it actually brings them closer to and develops more of an appreciatiob for our beautifulnature
4	the most people who do freedom camping are comitted tothe ules and really love nature!
3	the nature benefits to every one. It .is healthy. But we have to take care of it and return all our garbage.
1	the nature is a sight to see so i think we should keep it alive
4	The only thing I asked you to do for this party was put on clothes and you didn't DO it.
4	The people are always going to find a way to mess up the environment no matter what is prohibited. Better to work on policing rather take away peoples freedoms.  Give people the chance to see and then love and care for NZ.
3	The people should be banned. Use cameras for this.
4	the people should own the land
0	the planet is in troubleand the survival of these animals and their significance to the ecosystem matters more than the opportunity to check something off of some hipsters bucket list
4	the problem is invasive species not campers
4	the problem is not freedom caming. the problem is uneducted people acting disrespectfully. dont ruin it for everyone else. always respect the environment
4	the problem is the people not the rules or the locatons. just be more responsible humans
4	the problem it is not the freedom camping but the lack of knowledge on how to behave in a place where nobody clean after yourself.
1	the pros out way the cons
1	the punishments cold be made alot wore to incourage
1	the qeustion is too simplistic. Some paraneters need to be applied to allow NZ citizens the privilege of enjoying the freedom of our outdoor spaces but with very specific limitations to protect our wheuua and mauri.
3	the rubbish that is left behind is horrible for the enviroment
4	the small few ruin it for the rest of the respectul New Zealanders who take great care and pride in their country
0	the time is passed when this was acceptable
0	the top 10 holiday park was amazing
3	the tourists keep leaving rubbish which is bad.
1	the unmatched beauty of this natural environment should be preserved even if we need to stayout of some areas
4	the world is a blank cnvas to sleep where i want
2	the world is going to die
3	thecamping is a beautiful thing and disproportionally affects the poor.
1	then it means someone care enough to about the environment to think about this plan
4	then it will only be for the rich
4	there are a lot of great places ib nz should be harder fines for people that do wrong thing
4	there are bigger threats to wildlife and freedom campng helps create a love for aturethat will hopefully make uscare abot it
3	there are campgrouds where people can stay
1	there are enough options on asigned campinggrounds. respectnature
3	There are lots responsible NZers who freedom camp properly and get to enjoy this great country
2	there are many other things that kill our environment other than freedom camping. homless peopledo not have muchchoices these day. why take away their onechanc to survive without issue. you want change.  Get rid of crooked politicians and their jet planes first.
3	there are many people who are respectful and cantake careofnature
1	there are many whotake pride in our land and tidy up while camping
3	there are much more harmful things than freedom camping to the envronment like burning col or packinging teabags
3	there are not enough people to police this activity so even if it is banned it will still happen.
4	there are people that wont litter afer a good trip. also if people want to litterthen they will do it anywhere
1	there are plenty of camp grounds in amazing locations where there are bins and it iseasir to keep the area clean
0	there are plenty of huts and tours. nature is more important than self important tourists.
4	there are so many other ways to prevent littering .. stop blaming climate crisis on us little people
2	there are some that ruin it for all but still a lot that try to respect the environment. Banning freedom camping can come at the detriment of the tourism sector. Many job positions are filled by those working to fund their trip including agricultural sector.
3	there are stil plenty of responsible people who knows howto do the campingin the good way
0	there are too many people doing it and it puts a lot of pressure on the environment.
3	There are too many people who like camping for this to work
3	there are ways to sustainably freedom camp
3	there can be fredom camping without human waste. just because people right now dont care doesnt mean that  all people are like that.
1	there exist many reasonable solutions to  the current ecological crises but we need enforced policy and legislation to provide lasting change
4	THERE IS A LONG LIST OF OTHER THINGS TO BAN FIRST. THAN USE THIS AS AN EXCUSE TO REMOVE MORE HUMAN FREEDOMS
3	there is a place for freedom camping providing that people act responsibly to respect and protect the environment
1	There is a responsibility to the land we inherit
4	there is a smallminority of people who abuse the freedom caming. those people should befined. bt those of us who go camping and resect  our environment in doing so should not be banned as to is an amazing and cheap way to see the beauty out country has to offer
1	there is already too much waste in environment
1	there is momentum  building to really examine the impacts of all our activities including camping. and we can develop new ways of doing things.
1	there is no accountability for the campers and how the dispose of their waste or where they stay regarding tapu places or significant areas.
3	there is no reason to make this decision if people are respectful
4	There is nothing wrong with responsible freedom camping.My question to TePapa what if anything has this remit git to do with you. 
2	there is other things that are doing more damage
4	there is the capability and econoic benifits to  facilitate and encourage responsible freedom camping. tourism is our second largest income producer in NZ.  All we need is a car park rubish bin and toilet. my tax pays for that sort of thing.
0	there isnt enough infrastructure to keep them where intended they jus do what they want
3	there needs to be more protection of the enviroment but freedom camping is an incredible way to experience nz
3	there seems to be no consequences for people who dont care for our environment.
3	there should be a place for it but people need to share care and respect
4	there should be a right to roam. instead of banning - educate people to leave no trace from a young age like scandanavia
4	There should be a rule where littering is not aloud.
1	there should be areas where campers can safely park and have apropriate toilet facilities
4	there should be education so thatfredom caminggcan be done responsibly and sustainibly
3	there should be more monitoring and education of terms so people can camp whilst still being respectful of the envrnment
3	there should be no waste caps and it should be banned
0	there should be places designated for freedom camping around nz. Then good education and advertisng
3	there shouldbeway morec rules and cars should NOT be turned int self contained. however a larger good setup should be fine
4	there will alway be people who leave their rubbishand human waste behind but most freedom campers and campers in general really care about leaving no trace on their journey
1	there will be less litter and it will be better
3	there willbe a disconnect with nature. we shouldinstead inform of waste and make waste disposal easier
1	there wouldbeno issue with freedom camping if everyone respected ther country ad took all rubbish away with them
0	thereare too many people that do not clean up after themselves.
0	theres camp grounds for a reasn
3	theres more to regulations could be done. the cost of banning is massive  to the economy
4	theres nothing wrong withitif done respectfully
3	There's too much plastic getting into our beautiful nature; also unintended. :-(
1	they are not nice to the environmrt
0	they are onceand dont care what theydoor leave behind
0	they cause more rubbish and pollution
0	they dont care about our environment
3	they dont care for the  environment
3	They dont have places to put rubbish. Or human waste
1	they have no respect for ourland
4	they have no respect while doing it
0	they just shall all take their waste
4	they just want a cheap holiday
3	they leave their paru behind and do not care of the consequences. kia mahara ki te he o Rona.
4	they leave their rubbish and shit everywhere
3	they might kill animals for food andmake then extinkt
1	They pollute areas with leftover trash and disrespect the land
0	they poop everywhre and leave there stuff everywhere
3	they shit everywhere and leave rubbish
4	they should do as they want housing shortage makes people homeless and immagrants take nz housing
1	they should restrict them and place rules
4	they should take care of the enviroment cause we haveto suffer ur consiquinces
1	they shouldhave cheap or free DOC sites with basic facilities toallowaffordable but sustainable camping
4	they think of themselves and ther comfort atthe detriment of our natural eco system. selfish and thoughtless human beings
1	thi will stop pollution and keep our water clean
4	THINK ABOUT IT.  FREEDOM MEANS WHAT?
4	think how your house has been build. be worryabout the milk industry. the fossil industry. implement recycling. new zealand need to upgrade itself.
1	think people shuld always feel hope in them
1	thinking about ways to protect nature makes me hopeful but i believe it should be more regulated but not stopped. it is a way for people to appreciate nz nature and this fosters compassion for the environment.
1	this ban seems quite restrictive and limiting on the geberal population however i do think it it could heavily benefit our environment i the future
1	this change needs to be made
1	this ciuld redue things like climatechange
4	this country and our enviroment gains nothing from these people. they just degrade ourenviroment. they are pigs.
0	this is a fun and  cool place
1	this is a great idea because our wildlife is alreadysufering at our expence. Wile affordable travel opions may be a down side freedom camping is free so losing that would not halt any money entering our toreim indistry
1	This is a great idea to keep our enviroment and earth safe. The native wildlife deserves peace and clean spaces to call home. How would you likeit if people were invading your home?
1	this is a great way to explore nature but  look after it. Take away any RŪBBĪSH WĪTH YŌŪ
0	this is a strong idea and contributes to a lower carbon level which is brilliant
3	this is an essential way to connect with the environment
0	this is because freedom campig maydamage the enviormet which makes me excited to the ide of it beibg banned
4	this is bob again. you poo!!!
4	this is great to explore the country
3	This is not supported by evidence. ie you cannot possibly know the percentage of people who dont litter; so this responce of banning is disproportional and suggests lazy policy making by officials looking for "quick wīns".
4	this is not the only to protect the atmoshere but rather a poitcics
3	this is not the solution. the problem is human behaviour. people keep putting rubish everywhere. that needs attention.
3	this is part of nz  control it don.tban it
0	this is the right way to protect us
4	this is why global warming is getting worse
4	this makes me so angry. dont ruin traverlerslifes. itsthe reason people still travel
3	This seems like a band-aid strategy.
4	this shoulde well controlled asmost campers arevery  careless and dont look after ourenvioremnt and resorses
0	this will be a big step up to making people nore aware of the enviroment and the dangers we represent to it
1	this will be better for the environment
0	this will hopefully help the environment so we can breathe fresh air which i think is important
1	this will play a part in enviromental waste. controlled camping will prevent wildlife endangarment and polution
3	this would be bad becase if not evrybody were able to freely camp there may be homeless people that cant afford to camp or be able to go get a permit and thats just one of the reasons in conclusion im very much worried for the local washington.
1	thiscause of action mmay lead o lessrubish in the environmebt
3	those that respe the whenua should beable to freedom camp
0	tiakina te taiao te mea nui
0	TIKI I MURI I A KOE HIE KIWI PAI MAURI ORA
1	time to put the whenua first!
1	tinu i think that the environment should be more aking seriously. I hope that in the future the enviroment wil be part of our life. Now i think we have been more careful about this problem and i hope that will continue.
3	to ban it completly would not be the best solution to me. i hope to believe that most of the freedom campers are respectful and i think we should try to sensiblise the people
4	to ban people from travelingvthrough our country is wrong
4	to be able to camp on the land is a human right
4	to be closer to nature teaches respect. commodification ofnature is part of the problem
1	to be honest i have mixed feeling aboutths statement
1	to educate the people that camps how to protect our environment. without harmng nature andanimals
3	to fully admire nz wonders it is so secial to hear the quiet  not surrounded by so many
4	TO MANY PEOPLE  DONT REALIZE HOW MUCH DAMAGE THEY DO BY THROWING OUT A GUM WRAPPER  DOWN A CITYDRAIN
0	to many pepe leave there rubbish round
3	to much  damage to the environment.
1	to protect birds nd other animalstha could go etinked in later dated
0	To protect habitats and reduce spread of rubbish
2	TO PROTECT NATURE IS IMPORTANT. BUT TO ENJOY WITH IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT ACTIVITY.
1	to protect nzand keep nz clean and beautiful
1	TO PROTECT OUR NATIVE WILDLIFE - MORE LEVIES NEED TO BE INTRODUCED TO FUND CONSERVATION EFFORTS
0	to protect our natural environments for future generations
3	TO PROTECT THE NATURE YOU HAVE TO LOVE AND EXPERIENCE IT. THE BEST POSSIBIITY TO  DO THAT IS IF YOU SPEND A LOT OF TIME OUTSIDE. THE PEOPLE HAVE TO LEARN ABOUT POLLUTION AND THEIR EFFECTS. THEY ALSO HAVE TO BE FINED. BUT THE OPPORTUNITY TO FEEL THE NATURE SHOULDNT BE BANNED
0	to protect theenviorment does that mean we eat our rubish like my friend?:D
2	to quitfreedom camping probbly wont make a big difference and freedom camping dose not harm our envirment terribly
0	to safeguard the environment for future generations
2	to small a factor and many people try to leave nothing
3	to some aspect it brings more money and tourists to our country especially those not as fortunate as the rest. it allows them freedom like the world allows us but then on the other side its difficult because the people who take advantage of this treat take advantage  of us/NZ
1	to sustain our already declining enviroment of the whenua for my mokopuna
3	to understand nature you need to be close to it and thereby respect for it will occur
1	too many do not respect the environment
1	too many new campers who dont know best practices
3	too many people dont think about their imact
1	too much mess pollution and bad behavior
4	too much regulation. IT PENALISES THE POOR AND DISADVANTAGED
1	too much rubbish being dumped and nature being ruined.
1	too much rubbish left everywhere in the nature...
4	totally stupid ppl should be able to see the coubtry whilst freedom camping gt fkd
4	tourisim industry relies on freedom camping and tourists. Distribute more waste dumping sites and rubish bins to reduce unlawful rubish dumping. People sleeping in their cars isnt killing kiwi.GRRRRRRR
3	tourism in nz is tailored for the wealthy already for some freedom camping is the only affordableway to see our own country. removing freedom camping makes this country exclusively for the wealthy even more.
3	tourism industywould be at risk. people enjo camping in nz without paying extreme prices for accomidation.
4	tourism is important for growth and education
4	tourism should not just be for the priveledged
1	tourismneeds to b managed in a way soit does not negatively impact the enviornment
0	tourist dont look after our land so they dont get to enjoy it. it sucks but conservation above all else
1	Tourists camping withou infrastructure ruins it for all
1	Touristss come from all over the world and are less likely to respect NZ. Freedom camping enables people to leave rubbish without accountability.
4	toursts dont leave rubbish' locals do
0	tree kee us alive so i think it should
2	u dont have money why u care
4	unfortunately freedom campers who leave a trace of their visit spoil itfor those who do respect the environment
1	unfortunatly weare not behaving responsible enough without a ban i am hopefull ithelps
1	Unless areas are policed by local auhorities (which is the best solution) then it neds to end
0	unless people can find a way to freedon camp in a way that affects the envonment positively  it sould be banned
3	unless we.teach people to respect and enjoy our environment we will never make progress inconservation
0	until people are taught to camp responsibly they should not be allowed to camp outside designated areas  . erhaps there could be a pass system where once a class has been taken a person can then freedom camp
4	ur all snowflākes grow a spine
0	ur mum lol and deez nutz
4	us youngins want to explore for cheap yall would ruin that
4	used freedom camping all over new zealand when i was a teen and in my twentys.  All the camps enviorments were respected back then and im sure the same today.  banning them will just lead to commericalization.  commericalized camp grounds have been the worse camp grounds ive seen
4	very dissapointed in humanity ko warch this it gon be ruthless
3	VIEWAlot of people pull up to the areas were camping at and drink and so forth leaving rubbsish ans we get the blame. i think tidy people shouldnt get punished. theres nothing better than waking up to a true nz view
1	Visited a plce recently and felt so...
1	waste from people not caring for enviroment
4	we  won't be able to go on holiday and have fun on are days off!
1	we all need to work together if freedom camping is going to work.
3	we all should be able to enjoy together  better to educate and offer tough penalties to deter folks from behaving improperly
0	WE ARE ALL RESPONSIBLE TO PROTECT THECOMMONS FOR THE FUTURE  NOT JUST USE IT UP
4	we are backpackers and if we have the opportunity to camp in freedom spots we are behiving respectfulls much we can.
3	we are careful freedom campers and would be sad to see it go
3	we are going to be the wandering earth
1	We are guests here and should protect and cherish the natural world pachamama forever
1	We are guests on this beautiful planet we should cherish and protect pachamama
3	we are in danger of losing the native animals as well as the original habitat. we will be in grave danger if we do not conserve it now
0	we are kaitiaki. freedm camping doesn't fulfil this obligation
3	we are not taking enough action
1	we are ruining the worldwe live on and animal habitats
0	we are the ony countrythat allws people to camp for free and there is a total lack f respect
1	we are too many people freedom camping now and there arelots offacilities for camers
3	we are travellers in nz and for us its really helpfull have spots around your beautiful places to visit
3	We camp  every weekend and our options are getting more and more limited.  It really makes me angry that plces are crowded and that social media makes things so public.  I find so much human poo and rubbish everywhere.  People ruining it will get it banned for  everyone.
4	we can change this  security camaras would help
3	we can dofreedom camping and respect our environment
1	we can learn to camp without damaging the country
0	we cannot be having our freedom camprs leaving their dirty rubbish in our animals homes . word
4	we cannot disover our betiul contry neither can the german back packrs
1	we can't realy one everyone to take cre of there surroundings. We should all go be the theory that we only leave ou foot prints. and take our rubish.
3	we could putmore rules that campers must respect and control it
0	we do not own nature so we shoud not place rubbish were it doesnt belong. it belongs in a bin not nature!!!!!!!!
4	we dont behave like that !!!!  we respect the rules and love the nature.
1	we dont behave like that !!!! we respect the rules and love the nature.
4	we dont damage any surroundings and bring spending in local communities
4	we dont harm nature when freedom camping. apperently responsible freedom campers know how to live with nature and how to respect and protect it. we should start to take care about our planet in other parts of live like economy andour everyday live
1	we don't have have right amount off toilets around for them I WAS ON A BUSH WALKAND WE COULD NOT GO off track as peolpe have peeped and pope every where .
3	We dont hve alterative or controlled sites. i am aware of doc site but they are nt as well known
4	we dont want dirty environment. not healthy and bad for our future kids
0	we dontalways need to be in wilderness it shouldbe controlled
4	we freedom camp here and leave only footsteps
1	we hate stopping at a lookout or a crpak or rest area and finding toilet paper and rubbish. we also think that freedom camping should only be allowed when people are hunting tramping in remote areas where
0	We have a responsbility to protect the land
4	we have a right to camp on the land.  th effects of freedom camping are nothing compared to other things like forestry and farning
3	we have been freedomcamping in a self contained mtorhome and always take our rubbish etc  its a shame that idiots mess it up for others.  we have loved it and it woud be a shame if others couldnt do the same  however i do understand why
3	We have been to New zealand twice now and hired a motorhome the first time but always stayed on sites. No need to wild camp and destroy the environment
4	we have every right to camp
1	we have good campgrouds.protectng ourenvironment is more important
3	we have great facilities and there are sme of us that respect that
3	we have to learn to coexist with nature
1	we have to protect our beautiful world
4	we just have to learn how do it in good condition.
4	we just need to be respectful and clean after ourself to enjoy freedom caming and nature
3	we just need to help with the facilities
4	we just need to set areas up to deal with campers. more showers and public toilets to start.
3	we love freedom camping. offer more toilets and rubbish disposal to offer a place for freedom campers to take care of land
3	we might squish the plants with our tents
0	we must protect ourland as priority number 1
1	we need  to keep our country safe
3	we need a better control of freedom campers how they leave the place clean afterwards. solely banning is a no brainer.
1	We need a robust network of affordable and well located campgrounds.
3	we need control of the loo situation
0	WE NEED DO SOMETHING ABOUT THIS .IT WILL SAVE OUR ENVIRONMENT
3	we need free access to family getaways freedom camping allows this
3	we need more support for our natural areas
3	we need spots where people can camp so they dont do it in the wild natre
1	we need take action and protect the earth
1	we need to be better educated  and provide opportunities for waste and other facilities to do this better
2	WE NEED TO BUILD A WALL
0	we need to do the most we can toprotect the environment. recreation should not be a priorityin this case.
4	we need to find away to keep the enviroment clean with out colsing camping or the hiking trails as they are inpotant part of expirencing the country and healing
3	we need to get in to nature
1	we need to lok at all options to save our planet.  but we also need ways to enjoy its beauty
3	we need to look after our planet for ur children and grandchildren
3	we need to make it sustainable
3	we need to protect our enviornment. we get everthing from nathureso we need to protect it
0	we need to protect our envirinment for the next generation
0	we need to protect our enviroment.
1	we need to protect our environment
0	we need to protect our environment from further distruction
0	we need to protect our inviroment
1	we need to protect the natural world and unfortunately it cant coexist with some things i love
1	we need to share our nature
1	We need to start looking after Papatuanuku if we want to keep living on her
3	We need to teach people LNT and respect for the environment. freedom camping should be banned in certain at risk ecosystems but not everywhere.
1	we need tobe educated on how our actions affect the environment
1	we need toprotectour environment and carefully takecare of what we have. We could sill go camping but in an earea which is made for this. If we further destroy what we have it would be a pitty aand will n
4	we needtohunt deerso freedom camping helps for hunting
1	we only have one chance to protectur environment
4	we peopl feel like we should be abel to camp . first of all we would like to enjoy nature too.second of all we apretiate nature alot that is why we camp it is toget out side more
1	we provide motor camps with great facilities . that is want they are for. safe managed facilities .freedom campers are mostly good if self suffient but this is always  exploited and ruined by the non compliant pigs who do not care about others  or the eniviroment
3	we shall be able to camp without polluting. we would be a living animal like any
1	we shall take care of our environment
4	We sharea collective resposibility for our planet and should all take responsibility.
4	we shod not band freedom camping because we wont have fun
1	we shoud protect our environment but we should improve orcampsites and make them  cheaper and more   of them
4	we should all be free to enjoy nature
3	we should all have the choice to travel
2	we should all protest againstjacina #muppets
4	we should ban hunters not nice campers who just try to ENJOY nature with respect
4	we should be able to camp
4	we should be able to enjoy some free camp spots
4	we should be able to enjoyand connect with papatuanuku without restrictions rues and limitations as long as we are respectful
3	We should be able to experience nature. Responsibly though
4	we should be able to see are beautiful country
4	we should be able tocamp for free
3	we should be alowed to free camp
1	we should be disaponitd because it had to come o this ponit
3	we should be educated on how to camp leaving little trace. if we remove the chance for people to live immersed in nature then how/why would they take care of it. to camp in the wild is a natural experience that all humans should have acces to
3	We should be encouraged to use the environm.ent. Donat tar all freedom campers as bad many of us look after the environment and make it better i.e picking up rubbish left by other
1	We should be held responsible to clean up our own litter so we can enjoy the privedge of the beauty of nature - responsibility before pleasure
4	we should be llowed because yu could be hmeless abd bo money
4	we should be llowed toenjoy it.  the small stupid numbers houd not be allowed to rtake it from hr mjority
4	we should be trsted to wild camp abd lookafree the planet
0	we should be vigilant when camping
1	we should better facilitate caming to lower the impact on the environment. people shouldnt be discouraged from enjoying out beautiful country
3	we should camp but do it sustainably
1	we should camp in desinagtid areas to hel our nature
1	WE SHOULD CARE MORE ABOUT THE PLANET.
0	we should do anything thats good .
1	we should do more to  protect or inviermant.
1	we should do what we can to protect endemic species. we are nothing without a healthy environment.
1	we should do whatever we can to protect t
3	we should educate campers to look fterwildlife
3	we should encourage more responsible freedom campingandtourism
4	we should experience freedom to share and care fore nature
3	we should focus more on education. withhe ban people willtill freedom camp but i imagine they might be the sort the dont follow rules anyway
4	we should have more public toilets and parks to cter for freedom campig. this would encourage tourim especially in mre rural areas. it woul createmorejob opportuniyies forpeople againin small rual area
1	we should help the inviroment and secure it
4	we should hve the freedom to camp wherewe want as long as we leve it how we found it
2	we should just be respectful campers
4	we should not do that we camp anywhere
3	we should not leave rubbish behind in our  environment
1	we should prioritise taonga over personal pleasure
1	we should prioritize the safety of our animals
1	we should protect our land and be tidy kiwis
1	we should protect the habitat and keep it clear from human activities so wildlife can flourish.
0	we should save the nature to save ourselves
4	We should take care of the outdoors wile still enjoying it. God made it for us to appreciate. Perhaps leaving rubbish should be banned not the camping.
4	we should take of our land but be able to enjoy it.
3	we should teach people how to camp properly instead of banning it
4	we should teach people to take care of whatever they bring. as a society we found new places by camping and being respectful to one another so by bannin free camping we are helping the idea that hunan bbeings cant change their mindsets free camphelps us experienceth environment
3	we should ut in extra amenities in areas where people can freedomcamp
3	we shouldbe alowed to camp where we wnt toas theland isfor the people but  peopleshould also clean up
3	we shouldbe better stewards for enviro
1	we shouldbe conscious of the danger of not taking care of the environmet
3	we shouldconsider thateople will camp illegally if we outlaw freedomcamping
4	we shouldkeep camping to restrcted areas butf someon wanted to free camp they have to sign a paper
3	we shouldn' let more animals become extinct.
4	we shouldnt haverime minister innew zealand and lower pricse or we allmove t aus
4	we shouldnt stop freecamp its the perfect way for everyone to explor new zealand . wpeople need to be more educated .
4	we shouldnthave to miss outon nature bc other people are messy! clean and resect the earth!!
3	We shout defenity take care of our enviroment but to band freedom camping might be a little unnecessary
1	we still can make things better
1	we will understand one day that we have no choice and then maybe people will die because of it but thehumanity will survive
1	we wont have an environment to enjoy if we dont protct it
3	we would never litter and im sure teres a lot of people who wouldnt either
2	we zen up in are butt
3	wec an reduce improper waste disposal withou tbannig freedom camping and making holidays unaffordable
1	wee wee wee wee wee in in in your your pants
1	WELFARE OF OTHER ANIMALS NORE IMPORTANT
2	well' earth is relevant to the sun' so you are alien dingo frappucino
1	Well if people dont pay then they might be careless on how the use the surronding  items
4	well managed freedom camping will allow 99.999 percent of nature to thrive.
3	well yes i do agree i also think that pepole should be still allwld under certin
1	well..potecting nature to our right to enjoy them should be balanced.
3	were in trouble and rich people dont care
3	we're too far gone as a species - the earth may never heal
3	werty werty werty werty werty werty werty werty werty
1	weve got to make some sacrifices to protect  the planet
3	what ifpeople do it anyway and they still leave poo behind. but theycomplain about not having freedom and annoy youat christmas
1	whatever helps the environment shiuld be encouraged. There are lots of regular canpsites available
3	Whats the point of preserving nature if you can't experience it.
4	What's wrong with the circus ANYWAY?           It's the-it's the-it's coz of the-
3	when done correctly and safely it is a great experienc
3	when i was 34 i went camping! i went with my son he didn't enjoy camping at all (i was unaware of this) so when i was ditsracted setting up the tent he ran to the nearst city to sleep in a hotel for thenightwith the money that i gave him   to get petrol i never saw him again
4	when peope are educated freedom campin is a wonderful and evronmentay sensetive way to allow everyne to experience natre
1	when people are not responsible bythemselves someone has to setp n and regulate _ or forbid - it.
3	when people leav there rubish itbecome part of the earth and ruins it
4	when you are angry you wont be able to dogood things
4	when you connect with land you better care for it
1	while i enjoy camping nz provides huts. proper use of these can limit our collective footprints. yet a range of freedom camping option must be provided. huts are not accessible to all.
1	while i think that banning freedomcamping would benefit the environment i am worried about the implications for those struggling to find shelter and the consequences for them.
1	While limiting peoples freedom to explore the environment isnt ideal for travelling I think its beneficial to reducing climate change and making New Zealand a more liveable place.
1	Whilst it isimportant to engage people with nature so theycontinue tocare the protection of nature must come first.
4	who do they bloody think they are leving their shit here
4	why ban people trying to live in nature like humans once did
1	why cant we stick to normal camping?
4	Why do we feel the need to gatekeep and caitilise our whenua
4	why have a bautiful country if you cannot getout and be in it. experience is the kiwi way. we should teach stewardship and not just ban living in our beautiful country
2	why just why like people like to camp
3	why limit pure experience with nature..? responsabiliy is the key?
0	why not use designated spots tha are regulated
4	why ruin for everyone because of the few who neglect their duty
4	why should it be banned some people can only afford tents and not houses or fancy hotels
2	why should it ne band its mine lol
4	why should not we be able to camp
3	why should we rob the mjority of people of a wounderfull thing  just because a few dont behave as they should?  where will we end  if we keep doing that with everything ?
2	whyis there not an idk button
3	Will people actually listen? It seems like a hard thing to monitor and enforce. I hope it works though!
1	will protect more bu people that rubbish willbstilldo it ...
2	with larger fears concernicing the enviroment limiting peronal freedom is ineffective in producing the rapid change needed to save the enviroment
1	without clear defined areas high risk of  rubbish and damaging of the nature
3	without guidance people destroy precious places. if they can do the right thing itsok tofreedom camp!!
3	worried about all the animals and it is not good for  the  environment
3	worried about the fauna and flora because we are not concious about the endangered species
3	worried bcause it brings travellers on a budget here. i wouldnt be here today if i wasnt allowed to camp nearby.
3	worried that with freedom camping being banned that this could lead to a people illegally freedom camping anyway if there is no physical  form of protection to actually stop  them.
3	would ruin for tidy kiwi freedom campers
4	wrong government evil the world is a lie
3	wrong way to deal with the issue. better waste facilities and education on environmental awareness shoud be prioritised
0	yay plop goob . seriousy it isfor da bettrrrrr
4	yellow sausage rolls tatelike camel hairs
4	yes i agree with the issues around rubbsh and polution of th enviroment. But the concept of camping in its simplist form is part of who weare as Kiwis. Loving the environment is just about conserving but also enjoying and being immersed in it
1	yes lmao its goodecause people destroy environment. lol
4	yet another example of over regulation
0	YOU ARE A POO OF MY DOG
4	you are stupid even saying this like uwu
4	you are trying to take more of our freedoms away.  we have paid our taxs and rates so wecan share and travek our beautiful country.  we enjoy our countryand DOC are closing more and mre placs down to protect it forfuture generations. put in more toilets for general public .
0	you can buy happyness with money
1	you can never leave the campsite better than it was because you will either leave rubbish or disturb the plant and wildlife
4	you can still free camp and look after the enviorment. educate rather than ban
0	you can t love or learn the beaut of nature if you can t go i
4	you cant block off our land. put correct rubbish bins and everybody will take care
3	you cant learn when you cant stay in the nature
3	you could freecamp and being respectfull
1	you could ruil the native plants
3	you get to really experience nz wilderness when freedom campng inremote areas. as longas people remian responsible fr their waste
4	you have fantastisk natur why would you not let people see
3	'You know you could just get a camp ranger to come with you and supervise beacuseall those campers will be REALLY ANGRY if we ban this. so maybe get a responsible supervisor! :) good idea right?
4	you should have freedom to go were you want only requirment is to leave as you found it
1	You should only camp where you are allowed.
3	you shouldnt have to pay to go camping
4	You're so old that you learned to drive on a HORSE!!!!!
